Author,Title,PubDate,content
Web Desk,"Khatron Ke Khiladi 10, 12 July 2020 written update: Tejasswi Prakash's health deteriorates while contestants perform stunts with their friends",2020-07-12,"The episode begins with contestants getting a surprise from Rohit Shetty. The contestant's friends join them for an exhilarating episode of Khatron Ke Khiladi 10. Next, we see a preview of the upcoming episode. Rohit welcomes everyone for Darr Aur Dosti special episode. Karan introduces Abhishek Verma who is his best friend. They enact a funny scene in from of the audience and Karan makes Abhishek hold a reptile. Also Read - Khatron Ke Khiladi 10, 11 July 2020 written update: Dharmesh becomes the first finalist; Tejasswi Prakash faints during the ticket to finale stuntDharmesh introduces Kuwar Amarjeet Singh. Karishma introduces Salman Yusuff Khan and Karan pokes fun at her. Rohit puts Karishma and Salman through a test. Rohit has fun with them. Rohit talks to Smiriti who is here to support Shivin. Balraj introduces Shaleen Bhanot. Their camaraderie is hilarious. Rohit makes Shaleen and Amar dance. He makes Shaleen dance with a snake. Shaleen, snake and Amar groove together. Tejasswi introduces to Kabir who met them on the sets of her first TV show. Also Read - Khatron Ke Khiladi 10: 'Picture abhi baaki hai,' Karan Patel opens up on the finale of the seasonView this post on Instagram A post shared by Colors TV (@colorstv) on Jul 12, 2020 at 12:30am PDTRohit talks about the next stunt. He warns them that the one who loses would get fear fanda. The stunt will be performed by contestants and their partners. There's a hoop spring in which the contestants will have to climb with the help of special shows. The stunts will be performed by Shivin-Smiriti, Karishma-Salman and Balraj-Shaleen. Also Read - Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up for THIS show?Shivin-Smiriti begins the task. Shivin is sliding down after a while he started performing. Contestants cheer Shivin. Smiriti starts sliding down. Rohit guides Smiriti. Shivin gives Smiriti a push only to abort the stunt towards the end. Next to perform are Shaleen and Balraj. After a little difficulty, they start performing better. Shaleen aborts the stunt.The last to perform are Karishma and Salman. They are going steady in their stunt. They complete the stunt and get all three flags.View this post on Instagram A post shared by Colors TV (@colorstv) on Jul 12, 2020 at 2:30am PDTThe Score stands Shivin-Smiriti perform the stunt till 3:51 while Karishma and Salman completed the stunt in 2:03 seconds. Shaleen-Balraj aborted the stunt at 1:50 seconds. Rohit takes the contestants to a new location for their next stunt. Karishma and Salman perform a dance act.Next, the stunt would be performed by Tejasswi and Karan with their friends. The contestants and their partner would be sitting on a table with their heads inside a box. They have to transfer a key to their friend via their mouth. They have to unlock four locks. The twist includes that the box would be filled with surprise. The order would be decided by a game. They have to play pass the parcel in which the parcel is a bullfrog. Karan wins the game and sends Tejasswi first to perform the stunt.Tejasswi, however, gives up and reasons that she is not feeling well. Tejasswi reveals that her body has given up and that she cannot perform the stunt. Tears well up in Tejasswi's eyes and Rohit tries cheering her. Kabir cheers her up and they finally are ready to perform.View this post on Instagram A post shared by Colors TV (@colorstv) on Jul 12, 2020 at 3:30am PDTThe stunt begins and the stuntman put lizards and more little crawlies in their boxes. Tejasswi and Kabir perform it brilliantly. Karan and Abhishek perform it next. Stuntmen put lizards and other creepy crawlies in the box. Karan shivers throughout the performance. Rohit reveals that there is a difference of 7 seconds. Tejasswi and Kabir completed the stunt in 1:40 seconds while Karan and Abhishek took 1:33 seconds so Karan is safe and Tejasswi gets the fear fanda.Dharmesh and Amar also perform the stunt. Rohit reveals that the next stunt will be performed by Tejasswi Prakash and Shivin Narang along with their friends. The stunt will be performed by both contestants together. One of the contestants would be up on a dilapidated building. That contestant would take a crowbar and unlock it and throw it to the other one. The other one has to open a box and detonate a pull key. After which a blast will occur throwing the first contestant off the building and leave him hanging in the air.Shivin says he will stand up while Smiriti will detonate the bomb whereas Tejasswi opts to detonate the bomb and sends Kabir up. Both Shivin and Kabir begin the stunt. Kabir throws the crowbar first and throws it towards Tejasswi. Shivin struggles with the key. Tejasswi begins opening the crates. Shivin finally throws the crowbar and Smiriti begins arranging the boxes. Tejasswi completes the stunt. And Shivin is sent to the elimination stunt.The episode ends."
Web Desk,"Actress Divvya Chouksey passes away, ‘I am on my death bed,’ read her last Instagram message",2020-07-12,"Actress Divvya Chouksey, who made her Bollywood debut with the 2016 film Hai Apna Dil Toh Awara, passed away on Sunday after suffering from cancer. Her cousin sister Soumya Amish Verma wrote on Facebook. “I am very sad to share that my cousin Divvya Chouksey has passed away due to cancer at a very young age. She did an acting course from London and went on to feature in a couple of films and serials. She also rose to fame as a singer. Today, she left us. I wish God blesses her soul. RIP."" Also Read - Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai actor Mohsin Khan aka Kartik down with dengue!Divvya shared a heartbreaking note on her Instagram story yesterday. From the note it seemed that she knew about her death. She wrote, ""Words cannot suffice what I want to convey, the more the less, since it's been months am absconded and bombarded with plethora of messages. It's time I tell you guys, I am on my death bed. S**t happens. I am strong. Be there another life of non suffering. No questions please. Only god knows how much you mean to me. DC Bye.""Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai actress Niyati Joshi remembered the actress and wrote, ""We never connected the first time. It took us months to know eachother ,to be good friends . Today we lost a beautiful soul who fought this terrible disease CANCER for 1.5 years . You were always a fighter ,passionate about everything that u stepped into , extremely talented , vivacious . You wanted to release your own music video ,which you did all by urself. You have left us behind with some.beautiful memories . Your journey ended today but you will always be alive in my memories . Hope you in a better place my friend . SAHIL DC NYT group will always be incomplete without you .Love you Rip.""May her soul rest in peace."
Web Desk,Amitabh Bachchan's four bungalows sealed after Bachchan family gets infected by Coronavirus,2020-07-12,"Amitabh Bachchan's all four bungalows - Pratiksha, Janak, Vatsa and Jalsa have been sealed by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday. This is after Amitabh, Abhishek, Aishwarya and Aaradhya were tested positive for Covid-19. BMC, on Sunday, revealed that 30 people working at the bungalows have been tested for coronavirus and their results are awaited. Also Read - Abhishek Bachchan confirms that dad Amitabh and him will be hospitalized; Aishwarya Rai-Aaradhya quarantining at homeYesterday, Amitabh Bachchan and Abhishek Bachchan had tested positive and were admitted to Mumbai’s Nanavati hospital. Today, Aishwarya and Aaradhya were also tested positive. Abhishek revealed it on twitter today. Also Read - Aishwarya Rai Bachchan's Sarbjit co-star Ranjan Sehgal dies at 36 due to multiple organ failureAishwarya and Aaradhya have also tested COVID-19 positive. They will be self quarantining at home. The BMC has been updated of their situation and are doing the needful.The rest of the family including my Mother have tested negative. Thank you all for your wishes and prayers ?? — Abhishek Bachchan (@juniorbachchan) July 12, 2020Amitabh Bachchan took to Twitter yesterday and wrote, “I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests , results awaited ..All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested!” Also Read - Hema Malini DISMISSES illness reports with a sweet videoT 3590 -I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests , results awaited ..All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested ! — Amitabh Bachchan (@SrBachchan) July 11, 2020Soon after his tweet, even Abhishek Bachchan wrote that he had Covid-19. He took to Twitter and wrote, “Earlier today both my father and I tested positive for COVID 19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you.”Earlier today both my father and I tested positive for COVID 19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you. ?? — Abhishek Bachchan (@juniorbachchan) July 11, 2020Amitabh Bachchan was seen in Shoojit Sircar’s Gulabo Sitabo."
Web Desk,Congratulations! Brooklyn Beckham announces engagement with Nicola Peltz,2020-07-12,"Celebrity couple David and Victoria Beckham's son Brooklyn is engaged to girlfriend, actress Nicola Peltz. Also Read - Bobby Deol and his son Aryaman are India's answer to David and Brooklyn BeckhamBrooklyn, 21, has been dating Nicola, 25, for seven months, and he took to Instagram to share the news. A photo of them together showed Nicola wearing her engagement ring, reports mirror.co.uk. Also Read - Victoria Beckham thanks son Brooklyn Beckham for being her date at Paris Fashion Week - view pic""Two weeks ago I asked my soul mate to marry me and she said yes. I am the luckiest man in the world. I promise to be the best husband and daddy one day. I love you baby,"" Brooklyn wrote. Also Read - OMG: David Beckham and son Brooklyn involved in a car accident!View this post on Instagram A post shared by ?? (@brooklynbeckham) on Jul 11, 2020 at 6:26am PDTAccording to a source: ""Brooklyn has been telling his friends in LA that he and Nicola are engaged. It's common knowledge among their group of friends. They are smitten.""Meanwhile, the source added: ""David and Victoria have very much given this relationship their blessing. It's a very exciting time for the whole family and after a few previous rocky relationships, they think Brooklyn has landed on his feet.""Last summer, Brooklyn had split from model Hana Cross.He and Nicola announced their relationship in January by posting a black-and-white picture of themselves wearing towels."
Web Desk,Naagin 5: Ekta Kapoor says she has no idea who will be the next Naagin,2020-07-12,"Naagin 5 is one of the hot topics in the entertainment world right now. Ekta Kapoor's brainchild, Naagin has reached it's fourth installment and would soon make way for the fifth. The TV czarina is quite excited for the same however, she recently revealed that she has no clue who the next Naagin would be. Ekta took to her social handle and shared a video from her zoom meeting session with her creative team of Naagin 5. Also Read - Will Anita Hassanandani return in Naagin 5? The actress answers""So, Ive been doing Zoom meetings with the team, but they’re not even telling Me who is ‘Naagin’ in ‘Naagin 5’ ...from what I know, there are 2... can someone help me pls!! ? ? My creative producers and writers are keeping me out of it ...Maybe @colorstv can tell me !! #Naagin @balajitelefilmslimited,"" she captioned the video post. Have a dekko here: Also Read - Karan Patel REVEALS he was approached for Naagin 5, but Ekta Kapoor decided to cast him as Mr BajajView this post on Instagram A post shared by Erk❤️rek (@ektarkapoor) on Jul 11, 2020 at 9:43am PDTMeanwhile, Naagin aka Nia Sharma from Naagin 4 recently shared amazing pictures in which she could be seen dolled up as a bride. In her post the actress has revealed that new episodes of Naagin 4 will air from 18th July onwards. ""If I’d ever be convinced about getting married, It would only be for dressing up so much or maybe i’d actually be blind in love...? #naagin4 #18thjuly @colorstv,"" she captioned the post. Have a look here: Also Read - Naagin 5: Asha Negi dismisses rumours of being a part of Ekta Kapoor's showView this post on Instagram A post shared byNia Sharma (@niasharma90) on Jul 12, 2020 at 1:57am PDTNaagin 4 finale would air soon and will see Karishma Tanna and Surbhi Jyoti returning as Naagins. ""Ekta wanted to keep the touch of her previous seasons intact with this one, hence the leads of previous seasons Mouni Roy and Surbhi Jyoti to be part of Naagin 5. Seeing all the four leading ladies in one frame will be sheer delight for the Naagin fans,"" a source close to the development told Spotboye.Are you excited about the same? Let us know by tweeting to us @bollywood_life."
Web Desk,"Ekta Kaul shares a cute picture with baby Ved, and we are all hearts",2020-07-12,"Ekta Kaul and Sumeet Vyas became proud parents of a baby boy in June. They have been sharing quite a few pictures on their social handles of their recently begun journey of parenthood. Recently, the actress shared a picture on her social handle and defined her motherhood journey so far. ""Being a mother isn’t an easy job but it’s definitely the best job one could ever have.. And there’s no greater honour, love and blessing. #maahood #merabeta #ved,"" she wrote alongside the cutest picture of Ved sleeping in Ekta's arms. Have a look at the post here: Also Read - Kalki Koechlin-Guy Hershberg, Ekta Kaul-Sumeet Vyas, Smriti Khanna-Gautam Gupta — 8 celebs who welcomed their newborns in the first half of 2020View this post on Instagram A post shared by Ekta Rajinder Kaul (@ektakaul11) on Jul 11, 2020 at 9:58pm PDTSumeet Vyas also shared the same picture and wrote, ""Mama’s boy... ?"" Also Read - Sumeet Vyas is bowled over by new mommy Ekta Kaul, writes, 'They’re already a team and I’m just a comic relief in his routine'Meanwhile, earlier, the Veere Di Wedding actor had opened up on naming his boy Ved. ""Long ago, one of our relatives was having a child and we were discussing names when Ved came up and stayed with me. I decided if I have a boy, I’ll name him Ved. Since we come from the line of Ved Vyas, it makes sense,"" he told Mumbai Mirror. Also Read - Ekta Kaul shares first pic of son Ved sleeping beside his dad, actor Sumeet Vyas""We couldn’t trust a multi-facility hospital at a time like this. It was a normal delivery and both Ekta and Ved are doing fine,"" Sumeet opened up on delivering the baby in his aunt's clinic.""She’s doing okay. She’s very well organised and has everything planned out. Like bachche ke kapde, first month me jo cheezein lagengi, she way ahead,"" Sumeet had praised wife, Ekta Kaul on managing everything so well.After couple of days ago, Sumeet had shared a heartwarming picture praising his wife and hailing his son saying, ""Don’t think i can ever take any credit if he turns out to be Awesome. I’m sure he will, coz she definitely is the most Awesome Mommy I’ve seen, after mine... They’re already a team and I’m just a comic relief in their routine... #EktaMaa #vedvyas."""
Web Desk,Abhishek Bachchan confirms that dad Amitabh and him will be hospitalized; Aishwarya Rai-Aaradhya quarantining at home,2020-07-12,"Last night, we got the worrying news that Amitabh Bachchan and his son, Abhishek have tested positive for COVID-19. The megastar is now in the Nanavati Hospital. While Amitabh Bachchan is in the isolation ward, Abhishek Bachchan is in the general ward. There were rumours that Abhishek Bachchan had returned back home to Jalsa. However, he has cleared the air on Twitter. He has confirmed that he will be hospitalized for some days along with his father. Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and daughter Aaradhya are self-quarantining at home. Both of them have also tested positive. Jaya Bachchan's tests have come out negative. Also Read - Aishwarya Rai Bachchan's Sarbjit co-star Ranjan Sehgal dies at 36 due to multiple organ failureAishwarya and Aaradhya have also tested COVID-19 positive. They will be self quarantining at home. The BMC has been updated of their situation and are doing the needful.The rest of the family including my Mother have tested negative. Thank you all for your wishes and prayers ?? — Abhishek Bachchan (@juniorbachchan) July 12, 2020My father and I remain in hospital till the doctors decide otherwise. Everyone please remain cautious and safe. Please follow all rules! — Abhishek Bachchan (@juniorbachchan) July 12, 2020Abhishek Bachchan and Amitabh Bachchan have been flooded with get well soon messages. It seems Mr Bachchan is stable. He has slept soundly at night. The hospital was supposed to issue a bulletin at 12 pm but he told them that he would inform his fans via social media. Amitabh Bachchan has told people to take care in this extreme situation. Dr Ansari is looking after them. Also Read - Hema Malini DISMISSES illness reports with a sweet videoThe coronavirus pandemic has hit B-Town. Anupam Kher's mom Dulari has been admitted to the Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital. His brother Raj Kher and his whole family is also positive with COVID-19. Zoa Morani, Kanika Kapoor and Kiran Kumar also contracted the flu. The bungalow of Rekha has been sealed as one of her guards is tested positive. We hope people get well soon, prayers for all! Also Read - Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and Aaradhya Bachchan test positive for Coronavirus"
Web Desk,"Bigg Boss 14: Kamaal R Khan wants Ranveer Singh as the host instead of Salman Khan; fans say, 'Rohit Shetty chalega'",2020-07-12,"Bigg Boss 14 is coming on air in October. As of now, the makers are locking in the final contestants for the controversial reality show. It seems Salman Khan has agreed to host the show though he was rather upset during the last season. The makers are apparently paying Rs 16 crore to Salman Khan. In the middle of all, Kamaal R Khan who has been trolling the superstar since quite some time tweeted that Ranveer Singh would be a better option. He said that it would nice to see a fresh face and it would be good for the channel and producers as well. Needless to say, he got mixed opinions. Also Read - Kamaal R Khan hits out at Hansal Mehta, says, 'What Hansal or anybody else can snatch from me?'I personally think that @RanveerOfficial can be a very good host of #BiggBoss, So producers @ColorsTV @EndemolShineIND can replace Salman with Ranveer! And it will be good for the show for many more years in the future. — KRK (@kamaalrkhan) July 12, 2020He got mixed reactions from people. Those who are against nepotism suggested names like Ayushmann Khurrana and his brother, Aparshakti. Others even took names like Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Rajkummar Rao. Many felt that Ranveer Singh was a crazy package of entertainment and would be fun. However, people opined that no one amongst the contestants would take him seriously on the Weekend Ka Vaar. As we know, things can get really bad and Salman Khan has the towering personality. Last season, the contestants did not bother much about him as well. Also Read - Hansal Mehta requests Amitabh Bachchan to unfollow Kamaal R Khan on social mediaAbe chodu bigg boss replace ho jayga but salman khan ni — Pratik soni (@Pratiksoni01) July 12, 2020Bas kar @kamaalrkhan ab ranveer na jhela jayega...he is more of a cartoon... — (@PreetiJ61090766) July 12, 2020The reason of bigg boss success is Salman khan,No One can replace him untill he himself refuse to host. — Mehran saleem (@mehranb65977951) July 12, 2020Bhai @RanveerOfficial ko gussa nhi aata he to woh kese handle karega housemates ko — MR.विलेन? (@MRVillain420) July 12, 2020रणवीर सिंह की इतनी औकात नहीं है कि वह सलमान खान का को पछाड़ सके — Dinesh Saini (@DineshS63787171) July 12, 2020Many felt that Rohit Shetty would be a better option. We saw in Bigg Boss 13 how he entered the show to announce Sooryavanshi. That day, Asim Riaz and Sidharth Shukla had a terrible fight with some of the choicest expletives being hurled from both sides. He entered inside and they calmed down. He also shut down Mahira Sharma once. Rohit Shetty has the commanding personality that the contestants need! Also Read - #FakeKRKRealCulpritOfSushant: Sushant Singh Rajput's fans slam Kamaal R Khan for fake show of sympathy"
Web Desk,"Parth Samthaan tests positive for COVID-19: Hina Khan, Niti Taylor and others pour in wishes for the actor",2020-07-12,"Just about an hour ago, Television actor Parth Samthaan took to his Instagram handle and revealed that he has been tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Parth had resumed shooting amidst the COVID-19 pandemic on June 27th. The actor was excited yet nervous to be on the sets. The actor had shared BTS pictures from the shoot saying, ""Back to Shoot after 3 months ? Back to normalcy! #unlockindia."" Parth testing positive for COVID-19 has shocked his fans and colleagues though the actor in his post said that he has mild symptoms of coronavirus. Also Read - Coronavirus pandemic: Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2's Parth Samthaan tests positiveWishes started pouring in Parth Samthaan no sooner than he shared the same. Hina Khan, Niti Taylor and other friends and colleagues took to their social handle to wish the actor a speedy recovery. ""You will be fine my friend.. Godspeed! I am just a few buildings away,"" Hina commented on Parth's post. Also Read - Khatron Ke Khiladi 10: 'Picture abhi baaki hai,' Karan Patel opens up on the finale of the seasonNiti Taylor commented saying, ""Parth wishing you a speedy recovery. Good health and strength come your way. Take care be safe."" Also Read - Karan Patel on pay cuts: I will ask my producer to pay the makeup people and other guys before meArjun Bijlani advised him to take steams. ""Take care and pl take steam 2-3 times,"" he wrote in comments.Aparna Dixit too commented saying, ""Speedy recovery Parth! Stay strong""Scarlett Rose also commented, "" You will be recover soon. Don't stress and rest. See you soon Parthu."" Have a look at their comments pics here:“Hi everyone , I have been tested Postive for covid 19 .although I have mild symptoms.. I would urge and request everyone whose been with me in close promitixy over the last few days please go and get yourself tested . The Bmc has regularly been in touch and with the doctors guidance I am in self quarantine and I am grateful to them for all their support . Please be safe and take care,” Parth had written in post.Following the discovery, others from the test have been undergoing the tests as well as per the protocol."
Web Desk,Coronavirus pandemic: Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2's Parth Samthaan tests positive,2020-07-12,"Coronavirus pandemic is spread fast and is getting more deadly than ever. The country had been in the lockdown for three months until now but that has not brought the numbers of the positive-tested patients down. Instead, it is growing every day in the country. Recently, the shoots of films and TV shows had begun after about 100 days. Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2 was one of the TV shows that began shooting first. And now, the production house has reported that one of the talents from the TV show has been tested positive of the novel coronavirus. Also Read - Khatron Ke Khiladi 10: 'Picture abhi baaki hai,' Karan Patel opens up on the finale of the seasonBalaji Telefilms took to their Twitter handle and shared the news. ""We would like to inform various stakeholders that one of our talent from the show Kasautii Zindagii Kay has tested positive for COVID-19 and is now receiving medical attention. Our first priority is to help protect our talent, production crew and employees. We are taking all the precautions detailed in guideline. We were and continue following all medical protocols set by the authorities and have implemented guidelines concerning social interactions, hygiene, travel and visits to the sets."" (sic). Also Read - Karan Patel on pay cuts: I will ask my producer to pay the makeup people and other guys before meNo sooner than this was tweeted it was said that Parth Samthaan who had been shooting for the show has been tested positive. The actor confirmed the same in a post that read, ""Hi everyone, I have been tested Positive for covid 19 .although I have mild symptoms.. I would urge and request everyone whose been with me in close promitixy over the last few days please go and get yourself tested . The Bmc has regularly been in touch and with the doctors guidance I am in self quarantine and I am grateful to them for all their support . Please be safe and take care ?"" Have a look at his post here: Also Read - #BLBestOf6: Shaheer Sheikh-Rhea Sharma, Mohsin Khan-Shivangi Joshi, Parth Samthaan-Erica Fernandes — VOTE for the Best TV Jodi in the first half of 2020View this post on Instagram A post shared byParth Samthaan (@the_parthsamthaan) on Jul 12, 2020 at 4:27am PDTGodspeed and wishing you a speedy recovery Parth."
Web Desk,Aishwarya Rai Bachchan's Sarbjit co-star Ranjan Sehgal dies at 36 due to multiple organ failure,2020-07-12,"This year just keeps getting worse. Actor Ranjan Sehgal, who was a known face in the Punjabi and Hindi film industry, passed away on Saturday. It is believed that he died due to multiple organ failure. He was 36. He was Aishwarya Rai Bachchan’s co-star in Sargjit. He was not keeping well since a long time. The actor was cremated earlier today and is survived by his mother, elder brother and sisters. Also Read - Sarbjit actor Ranjan Sehgal passes away at 36He was also seen in shows like Gustakh Dil, Rishton Se Badi Pratha, Crime Patrol, Kuldeepak and Savdhaan India. Also Read - Hema Malini DISMISSES illness reports with a sweet videoTalking about Aishwarya, the actress, along with her daughter Aaradhya was tested positive for Coronavirus today. Yesterday, Amitabh Bachchan and Ahishek Bachchan had tested positive and were admitted to Mumbai’s Nanavati hospital. Also Read - Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and Aaradhya Bachchan test positive for CoronavirusAmitabh Bachchan took to Twitter and wrote, “I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests , results awaited ..All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested!”T 3590 -I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests , results awaited ..All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested ! — Amitabh Bachchan (@SrBachchan) July 11, 2020Soon after his tweet, even Abhishek Bachchan wrote that he had Covid-19. He took to Twitter and wrote, “Earlier today both my father and I tested positive for COVID 19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you.”Earlier today both my father and I tested positive for COVID 19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you. ?? — Abhishek Bachchan (@juniorbachchan) July 11, 2020We wish for their speedy recovery."
Web Desk,"Sushant Singh Rajput suicide: 'Don't close the topic,' says Yuvika Chaudhary as she demands justice for the actor",2020-07-12,"Sushant Singh Rajput's sudden demise has affected the whole country. His death has been a topic of discussion all across the country where fans have been demanding the police to thoroughly investigate the matter. They even have a trend on social media asking for CBI inquiry in the death of their dear star. Sushant's demise has triggered a debate on nepotism, lobbying, camp-ism, group-ism and has put the star kids on the edge of the knife. Also Read - Karan Patel takes a dig at Kangana Ranaut's nepotism tirade, asks, 'Why didn't she cast Sushant in her film?’Sushant Singh Rajput did not belong to the industry but made it big solely on his acting abilities and his charm. The actor's death has affected a lot of people, whether they knew him or not. Recently, actress Yuvika Chaudhary took to her social media handle and shared a status demanding justice for the Chhichhore actor. ""#JusticeForSushantSinghRajput. Why did he die, how did he die? What is the actual reason? Don't close the topic, we need proof. He needs justice then only he will be in peace,"" she wrote in her Instagram stories. Have a look at the screenshot of the same here: Also Read - Trending Tunes: Sushant Singh Rajput's Khairiyat is back on the chartAlso Read - RIP Sushant Singh Rajput: Late actor's hometown Purnea names a road after himMeanwhile, a road and a roundabout here have been renamed in memory of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, a resident of Bihar. The people of Purnea, Sushant's home district, had been demanding the renaming of a road and chowk in memory of the actor. The municipal corporation has now changed the name of Ford Company Chowk to Sushant Singh Rajput Chowk. Savita Devi, the mayor of Purnea, inaugurated the newly renamed road and chowk, pictures of which have gone viral on social media.Devi said that Sushant was a great artist and to name the road after him is a tribute to him. The mayor said that the road that goes from Madhubani to Mata Chowk will now be known as Sushant Singh Rajput Road. Not only this, the name of the roundabout of the famous car company has also been changed to Sushant Singh Rajput Chowk. People of the state, including some organisations, are demanding a CBI probe into the actor's death."
Web Desk,From missing out on Sooryavanshi's release to TV shoots getting cancelled – here is a look at what we missed out on due to lockdown,2020-07-12,"The lockdown brought India to a standstill and it was no different for the entertainment industry. With the government banning public congregations, cinema halls got closed and even shoots were stopped. This meant that we saw no film releases and even Salman Khan’s customary Eid release did not happen. We had to make do with reruns of old shows as makers could not shoot for fresh episodes. Here is a look at what we missed out on in these six months… Also Read - #BLBestOf6: Tanhaji, Thappad, Sooryavanshi, Chhapaak — vote for the Best Trailer in the first half of 2020No awardsEvery year, the month of January is crowded with award shows. This year, we had only a couple of them. As the government announced a ban on crowding, all of them got cancelled. We missed out on all the red carpet drama. Also Read - Did you know Akshay Kumar's wife Twinkle Khanna was arrested on charges of obscenity?No Eid releaseOver the past few years, we have been used to seeing a Salman Khan release on Eid. This year, fans were in for a colossal disappointment as Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai could not release in theatres. We don’t know when the movie will hit the cinema halls. Also Read - Madhuri Dixit reveals Akshay Kumar is a watch thief; says, 'He steals from people without them knowing'Biggies postponedRohit Shetty’s Sooryavanshi was supposed to release on March 24, 2020. The trailer received a thunderous response from the masses and classes. However, the pandemic meant a delay in the release. Ranveer Singh’s ’83 was supposed to come in April but now it will come in Christmas. Other films like Gulabo Sitabo, Shakuntala Devi, Dil Bechara are coming on OTT platforms.Shooting stalledThe pandemic meant that shoots of TV shows were also stalled. We did not get to see fresh episodes for almost three months. Channels started running popular old shows to compensate for it. The biggest successes were mythological shows as people were glued to them in these testing times. They got staggering TRPs. Ramayan broke all records and how.Zero fashion spottingThe fashion police was literally rendered jobless as there were no spotting of the stars either at the airport, parties or promotions. Actors did not step out for days. We missed the times when we saw people without masks. The only ray of hope were some TV actresses who did some fab photo sessions at home. We also need that kind of motivation in life."
Web Desk,"Riddhima Kapoor Sahni slams an 'attention-seeker' who wrote that Neetu Kapoor, Ranbir and Karan Johar have tested positive for COVID-19",2020-07-12,"The news that Amitabh Bachchan has tested positive for COVID-19 has left the nation worried. The megastar tweeted last night that he has been taken to the Nanavati Hospital where he has been kept in an isolation ward. Now, someone spread the news that Neetu Kapoor, Karan Johar and Ranbir Kapoor have also been tested for COVID-19. Angry Riddhima Kapoor Sahni took to social media to slam such behaviour. She said they were doing fine. Riddhima Kapoor Sahni said that it was disgusting to spread such rumours without any verification from the family. As we know, Neetu Kapoor turned 62 recently. She held a birthday party where Karan Johar and Agastya Nanda were present. Also Read - Karan Johar joins Ranbir Kapoor in celebrating Neetu Kapoor's birthdayAmitabh Bachchan has been admitted to the Nanavati Hospital in Juhu. He has been kept in the isolation ward. Abhishek Bachchan, who also tested positive is in the general ward. The actor was working from home for Kaun Banega Crorepati. Celebrities, politicians and fans are praying for the good health of Amitabh Bachchan. The actor has battled a life-threatening period after the accident on the sets of Coolie. The whole nation was praying for him. Also Read - You can't miss these pictures from Neetu Singh and daughter Riddhima Kapoor Sahni's Thursday night dinnerRiddhima Kapoor Sahni is in Mumbai ever since she came down for the final rites of Rishi Kapoor. He passed away on April 30. The whole industry is dealing with losses of numerous artistes. She had come down from Delhi to Mumbai via road. She along with the family celebrated Neetu Kapoor's birthday some days back. We wish them a speedy recovery! Also Read - Father's Day 2020: Riddhima Kapoor Sahni's father's day wish for Rishi Kapoor will make you emotional"
Web Desk,"Amitabh Bachchan thanks medical staff, tells fans not to panic — watch video",2020-07-12,"Amitabh Bachchan has been tested positive for COVID-19. The whole nation is praying for the megastar. He has battled health issues in the past and always come up trumps. Everyone is praying for his speedy recovery. Social media is flooded with wishes for him. Amitabh Bachchan and his son, Abhishek have both tested positive. While Amitabh Bachchan has been kept in the isolation ward of Nanavati Hospital, son Abhishek is in the general ward. The doctors are little stressed due to Big B's age and low immunity. However, the spokesperson of Nanavati Hospital has said that he has mild symptoms and slept soundly at night. Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan's condition stable, confirms official from Nanavati HospitalAmitabh Bachchan went live from the hospital. He profusely thanked the medical staff and all frontline warriors who are working round the clock. He told fans not to panic in the situation. Amitabh Bachchan urged people to stay safe and reminded them that these are unexpected circumstances. He had been doing many public service messages for coronavirus all along. Amitabh Bachchan tweeted last evening, ""3590 -I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests , results awaited .. All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested!"" Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan tests Covid-19 positive: The actor worked from home, was filmed for KBC promotions indoorsT 3590 -I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests , results awaited ..All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested ! — Amitabh Bachchan (@SrBachchan) July 11, 2020The megastar was shooting for the promotions of Kaun Banega Crorepati from home. Jaya Bachchan, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Aaradhya Bachchan's swab reports will come by afternoon. The nation is praying for them. A fresh notice will be put out by the hospital at 12 pm. We wish them a speedy recovery. Also Read - Rekha trends on twitter after Amitabh Bachchan tests positive for Covid-19"
Web Desk,"#BLBestOf6: Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo, Sarileru Neekevvaru, Bheeshma: Vote for the best South film trailer of 2020 so far",2020-07-12,"It's very important for the filmmaker to cut the trailer of his film in a sharp and crisp manner as maximum times, it turns out to be a decision-maker for the audience, whether to watch that movie in a cinema hall or give it a miss. While we missed many films in the last three months due to the pandemic situation, we saw some impressive trailers from down south, which instantly raised our expectations for these projects. Some of them worked, while some disappointed us but we can't deny that the trailer of these films impressed us to the core. So, here are the best trailers, which we have shortlisted in the first six months. So, here are they... Also Read - Week That Was South: Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's Radhe Shyam first look released, Allu Arjun shares an adorable pic of daughter ArhaAla VaikunthapurramulooSarileru Neekevvaru'Stylish Star' Allu Arjun 's Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo, which emerged a box office blockbuster, started its promotion with a sixer right from its trailer, where we witnessed the swag of the lead star along with his mesmerising chemistry with Pooja Hegde. The perfect ingredients of a masala entertainer with bang on BGM and music, made the trailer of Trivikram Srinivas' directorial an outright winner.The trailer of Mahesh Babu and Rashmika Mandanna's Sarileru Neekevvaru surpassed our expectations thanks to some seeti-maar dialogues of Prince Of Tollywood along with the charismatic presence of Vijayshanti, who made her comeback with this action entertainer. Also Read - Allu Arjun shares an adorable click of daughter Arha with a caption that is all heartWorld Famous LoverWhile the film bombed at the box office, the trailer of Vijay Deverakonda's World Famous Lover was loved by all as one again, the 'angry young man' avatar of VD impressed us along with crackling equation with leading ladies Aishwarya Rajesh, Raashi Khanna, Catherine Tresa and Izabelle Leite.BheeshmaThe trailer of Nithiin and Rashmika Mandanna's Bheeshma had the perfect mix of romance, action, and comedy and was nicely packaged to make us smile and impress the family audience.PsychoThe trailer of Psycho featuring Udhayanidhi Stalin, Aditi Rao Hydari and Nithya Menen had a gripping narrative and an intriguing background score which made us glued to the screens and raised our excitement for the film.Varane AvashyamundDulquer Salmaan and Kalyani Priyadarshan starrer Varane Avashyamund gave us a feel-good vibes with its slice-of-life narrative and easy-breezy feel.So, out of these trailers, which one impressed you the most? Vote now:"
Web Desk,"Amitabh Bachchan's condition stable, confirms official from Nanavati Hospital",2020-07-12,"The year 2020 is distressing at another level. Amitabh Bachchan has tested positive for COVID-19 along with son, Abhishek. The whole of India is praying for the speedy recovery of the superstar. Both Amitabh Bachchan and son, Abhishek have been admitted to Juhu's Nanavati Hospital. While Amitabh Bachchan has been kept in isolation ward, Abhishek is in a more general ward for COVID-19 patients. It seems superstar Amitabh Bachchan is asymptomatic. The officials confirmed that his condition is stable and he has slept well at night. It seems they are slightly worried about him due to his age and low immunity. Another bulletin about his health will come by 12 pm. Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan tests Covid-19 positive: The actor worked from home, was filmed for KBC promotions indoorsDr Ansari of Nanavati Super Specialty Hospital is looking after his case. The news broke out last night and wishes have come pouring in for the father-son duo. Both the bungalows, Jalsa and Janak have been sealed. The COVID-19 antigen reports of Jaya Bachchan, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and Aaradhya Bachchan have come out as negative. The swab test results are awaited. He tweeted last evening, ""3590 -I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests , results awaited .. All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested!"" Also Read - Rekha trends on twitter after Amitabh Bachchan tests positive for Covid-19T 3590 -I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests , results awaited ..All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested ! — Amitabh Bachchan (@SrBachchan) July 11, 2020A number of celebs, politicians and sportsmen have sent their best wishes to the star. Amitabh Bachchan was last seen in Gulabo Sitabo on Amazon Prime with Ayushmann Khurrana. The movie was made by Shoojit Sircar. He has movies like Jhund and Brahmastra up for release. We wish him a speedy recovery! Also Read - After Amitabh Bachchan, Abhishek Bachchan tests positive for Coronavirus, requests all to not panic"
Web Desk,Guess the price: Anushka Sharma's bikini look for a magazine is equivalent to annual salary of a fresher,2020-07-12,"Anushka Sharma is a beauty queen. The actress has been keeping busy as a producer and acting has taken a back seat for a while now. However, that's not stopping Anushka from creating a stir on social media. The actress recently conducted a photo shoot for the season's collection of a popular brand. For the same, Anushka slipped into several resort-wear that are just too HAWT to handle. Anushka Sharma shared a magazine cover of Vogue India on her Instagram handle. She could be seen in a cobalt-blue halter neck Hermès swimsuit. It was detailed with tassels on the neckline. A signature print, beach shirt by the French brand was added to complete her scintillating look. Have a look at Anushka's post here: Also Read - International Kissing Day 2020: From Ranveer Singh-Deepika Padukone to Abhishek Bachchan-Aishwarya Rai, these B-Town couples believe in ‘kiss and tell’View this post on Instagram A post shared by AnushkaSharma1588 (@anushkasharma) on Jun 30, 2020 at 9:01pm PDTHowever, do you know what this look costs? We were browsing and found out. The swimwear itself costs about Rs. 39,300 and the shirt costs about Rs. 1,17,000, which totals Rs. 1,56,300. Yes, that's how much this look of Anushka is worth. It is the basic annual salary of a fresher. Also Read - It's Expensive! Anushka Sharma's tote bag is for ones with deep pocketsAlso Read - Anushka Sharma opens up on visiting Virat Kohli on his cricket tours, 'It’s to squeeze in that one meal together; it’s precious time for us'Recently, Anushka opened up on spending more time with Virat Kohli now than she ever did. ""People assume when I’m visiting Virat or when he is visiting me that it’s a holiday, but it’s really not. One person is always working,"" Anushka told Vogue recalling her earlier days. ""In fact, during the first six months of our marriage, we spent 21 days together. Yes, I actually calculated. So when I visit him overseas, it’s to squeeze in that one meal together. It’s precious time for us,"" the Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi actress added.Anushka also opened up on the pandemic situation, saying, ""Whatever little inconveniences I have had to face in these few months is insignificant compared to what so many others in our country are facing—people are unable to go home, some are struggling with loss of income and home, others are facing starvation even as many more deal with their loved ones being unfortunately struck by this disease. I’ve always been realistic, but now more than ever I am understanding the meaning of life."""
Web Desk,"It’s Awkward! Arbaaz Khan picking his nose, Neha Kakkar adjusting her hair after visit the salon",2020-07-12,"Weekends are for fun and we are here to entertain you with some hilarious pics. Your Sunday is surely going to be rocking because we will make sure of it. The pictures you guys have been waiting for the whole week are finally here. Yes, we are talking about one of our favourite categories – the awkward pictures of the week, where we share some really funny and hilarious pics of our favourite celebrities. So, laugh and say, “It's AWKWARD.” Take a look here… Also Read - Indian Idol 12 promo: Aditya Narayan sings and dances as he announces audition detailsArbaaz KhanAlso Read - Kapil Sharma throws a Guess Who challenge with a flashback picture - have you identified yet?One will start laughing by looking at this picture itself. It seems that while taking a walk, Arbaaz Khan had decided to clean his nose as well. The camera has caught you, Arbaaz. Also Read - Sonakshi Sinha, Neha Kakkar: 6 celebs who quit social media due to its growing TOXICITYNeha KakkarNeha Kakkar is just out of the salon and the wind has done its work. Neha might be saying, ""Let my hair look good at least till I get into my car, please.” We hope her salon money has not gone to waste.Maniesh PaulWhen Maniesh Paul is in front of you, laughter has spread across your face before you know it. Maniesh looks like a funny monster in this picture, doesn’t he?Sangeeta BijlaniSangeeta Bijlani makes it to our list this week. She celebrated her birthday recently, and this picture of the former actress on her special day, applying sanitizer to her hands and looking above as if she is tired of the sanitizer and asking God to take away coronavirus makes us ROFL.Tiger ShroffLooking at this picture of Tiger Shroff, we are reminded of Gabbar's dialogue. The Baaghi 3 actor's posture makes us say, “Ye bottle mujhe de de, Tiger.”"
Web Desk,Trending Tunes: Sushant Singh Rajput's Khairiyat is back on the chart,2020-07-12,"Hola friends, we are to update you all with the top trending songs of the week... so hum along… Also Read - #BLBestOf6: Tanhaji, Thappad, Sooryavanshi, Chhapaak — vote for the Best Trailer in the first half of 2020Meri AashiquiMeri Aashiqui by Jubin Nautiyal is a huge hit among the masses. It has been a top trend for weeks now. The music of Meri Aashiqui is given by Rochak Kohli and features the handsome singer alongside Ihana Dhillon and Altamash Faraz. The lyrics are penned by Rashmi Virag in addition to original lyrics by Shree Anwar Sagar. Also Read - #BLBestOf6: Tanhaji, Malang, Thappad — vote for the Best Film in the first half of 2020Chal Ghar ChalenKhairiyatTera Ban JaungaMalangChal Ghar Chalen is a soft number by Arijit Singh. The music is given Mithoon while the lyrics are given by Sayeed Quadri. Chal Ghar Chalen features Aditya Roy Kapur and Disha Patani Khairiyat is a romantic number from Chhichhore, featuring late Sushant Singh Rajput Shraddha Kapoor and the rest of the cast in bits and pieces. Khairiyat is composed by Pritam and sung by Arijit Singh. The soulful lyrics are given by Amitabh Bhattacharya.Tera Ban Jaunga is arguably the most romantic track of Kabir Singh. The music is composed by Akhil Sachdeva, who has also sung the song alongside Tulsi Kumar. The lyrics of Tera Ban Jaunga are penned by Kumaar.The Malang title track is composed by Ved Sharma, who has also sung it. The lyrics are written by Kunaal Vermaa and Haarsh Limbachiyaa.Amazing songs on the list, which is you favourite?"
Web Desk,"Shaheer Sheikh, Shivangi Joshi, Hina Khan — here are the TV Instagrammers of the week",2020-07-12,"It is the last day of the week, which means we need to do some Instagram stalking. Those who could not take out time to stalk their favourite celebrities on Instagram need not worry, we won't let you guys miss out on anything. We are here with the list of the most interesting posts this week on Instagram. So, without any further delay, take a look at the TV Instagrammers of the week.... Also Read - Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke's Shaheer Sheikh gives a THROWBACK treat to fans as he shares his first ever selfieShaheer SheikhYeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke actor Shaheer Sheikh has now become regular in our list of TV Instagrammers of the week. His recent throwback post is surely the best of all. He shared his first-ever selfie. The picture was clicked during the actor’s younger days as he was travelling in a train. In the picture, we see him in an orange t-shirt and maroon hoodie. He also wore a denim jacket and looks cute. His thick joint eyebrows grab all the attention. Along with the picture, he wrote, ""First selfie ever taken by me .. onboard Jhelum express sleeper class. #madMe #shaheersheikh"" Take a look at his post here: Also Read - #BLBestOf6: Shaheer Sheikh-Rhea Sharma, Mohsin Khan-Shivangi Joshi, Parth Samthaan-Erica Fernandes — VOTE for the Best TV Jodi in the first half of 2020Shivangi JoshiYeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai actress Shivangi Joshi does not regularly share pictures on Instagram, but when she does, they set the internet on fire. She recently shared a few pictures and she looks drop-dead gorgeous in them. We just cannot take our eyes off the beautiful lady. Check out her Instagram post here. Also Read - Hina Khan, Shaheer Sheikh, Manish Raisinghan — here are the TV Instagrammers of the weekHina KhanHina Khan has to be in our list of TV Instagrammers of the week. She is a social media queen and always has something amazing to post. She recently shared a few throwback pictures of herself from her Raanjhana shoot. Hina Khan posted the bridal pictures and its full of swag. Check out her post here:View this post on Instagram SUUUUUWAG ? A post shared by HK (@realhinakhan) on Jul 8, 2020 at 3:45am PDTNia SharmaNia Sharma shared a few pictures from her look as Brinda in Naagin 4. She looks stunning in the white saree and we are excited to watch Naagin 4 again. Nia Sharma surely ups the hotness quotient with this picture. Take a look.View this post on Instagram Saree Town! A post shared by Nia Sharma (@niasharma90) on Jul 7, 2020 at 4:37am PDTAsim RiazBigg Boss 13 contestant Asim Riaz has made it to the list. Asim Riaz has fulfilled his dream and is a proud owner of a luxurious car. He has brought his dream car- BMW 5 series. Asim Riaz posted a picture with his new car on Instagram and wrote, ""I’m extremely happy today to get my DREAM CAR. new beast - BMW 5"" Check out his Instagram post."
Web Desk,"Amitabh Bachchan tests Covid-19 positive: The actor worked from home, was filmed for KBC promotions indoors",2020-07-12,"Amitabh Bachchan has tested positive for Coronavirus. The actor took to Twitter and wrote, “I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests , results awaited ..All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested!” Also Read - Rekha trends on twitter after Amitabh Bachchan tests positive for Covid-19T 3590 -I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests , results awaited ..All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested ! — Amitabh Bachchan (@SrBachchan) July 11, 2020Soon after his tweet, even Abhishek Bachchan wrote that he had Covid-19. He took to Twitter and wrote, “Earlier today both my father and I tested positive for COVID 19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you.” Also Read - After Amitabh Bachchan, Abhishek Bachchan tests positive for Coronavirus, requests all to not panicEarlier today both my father and I tested positive for COVID 19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you. ?? — Abhishek Bachchan (@juniorbachchan) July 11, 2020Right from the start of the lockdown, Amitabh has worked from home on various promotional as well as professional assignments. He was seen in a public service announcement video, in which he shared preventive measures to curb the spread of Covid-19. The video, shot by him at his home, was shot in both English and Hindi. He was also seen in a short film, Family for which he was filmed at home. The film also featured Alia Bhatt, Diljit Dosanjh and Ranbir Kapoor among others. Big B even shot the promos of KBC from home. Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan tests positive for Covid-19, Taapsee Pannu, Anupam Kher and other celebs wish him a speedy recoveryOn the other hand, Abhishek had stepped out on at least four occasions recently. He was snapped by the paps wearing masks on all occasions.Abhishek had recently shared a note on the release of his Web Series, Breathe: Into the shadows. He wrote, “As an actor, our greatest joy is to receive a positive response to our hard work. Reading all your beautiful comments all day has been so wonderful and emotional.""We wish them a speedy recovery."
Web Desk,Rekha trends on twitter after Amitabh Bachchan tests positive for Covid-19,2020-07-12,"Amitabh Bachchan took to Twitter and announced that he had tested positive for Coronavirus. He wrote, “I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests , results awaited ..All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested!” Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – Sara Ali Khan pays tribute to Sushant Singh Rajput, Rashami Desai opens up on Naagin 4 finaleSoon after he tweeted, for some strange reason, Rekha started trending on Twitter. Earlier in the day, there were reports saying that Rekha's Mumbai bungalow has been sealed and declared as containment zone by the BMC. This was after her security guard tested positive for COVID-19. Her bungalow Sea Springs has two security guards, one of whom has tested positive for the COVID-19, and is being treated at a facility in BKC. However, there was no official statement from the actress or her spokesperson. Also Read - When Rekha talked about her fantasy to have lots of children and said, 'hope it doesn't remain a fantasy'Here are some of the Twitter reactions: Also Read - Punnagai Mannan Controversy: Kamal Haasan should apologise to Tamil star Rekha for non-consensual kiss in K. Balachander film, say fansHey meme-makers just reminding y'all to please maintain some dignity, and stop making memes on #AmitabhBachchan & #Rekha JiIn the time of crisis we better try to pray for each other! — निहारिका | Niharika (@iamniharicka) July 11, 2020Our media always knows how to sensationalise shit. Have they no shame at all?For the unaware, Amitabh Bachchan was tested positive and on a completely different note one of Rekha's guards were tested positive too. Obviously the house gets sealed. But headline-#AmitabhBachchan pic.twitter.com/SEfNkMETug — Shashank Kumar (@AntShant97) July 11, 2020After Amitabh Bachchan, even Abhishek Bachchan tweeted that he was tested positive. He took to Twitter and wrote, “Earlier today both my father and I tested positive for COVID 19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you.”In another tweet, he said, “The BMC has been in touch and we are complying with them.”Abhishek Bachchan had recently shared a note on the release of his Web Series, Breathe: Into the shadows. He wrote, “As an actor, our greatest joy is to receive a positive response to our hard work. Reading all your beautiful comments all day has been so wonderful and emotional.""Meanwhile Amitabh keeps updating fans about his life and also shares trivia from his career. He recently took to Instagram to reveal that he shot his first drunk scene in the film Mili which also starred wife Jaya Bachchan. Sharing the artwork of the poster of the film, he wrote, ""Art work for our film MILI .. Jaya and me .. and my first drunk scene .. much before mirror scene of AAA, Satte Pe Satta and HUM or Shakti."""
Web Desk,"After Amitabh Bachchan, Abhishek Bachchan tests positive for Coronavirus, requests all to not panic",2020-07-12,"This is just pathetic. Just a while ago, Amitabh Bachchan had tweeted that he had tested positive for Covid-19. Now, Abhishek Bachchan has tweeted that he too has the disease. He took to Twitter and wrote, “Earlier today both my father and I tested positive for COVID 19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you.” Also Read - ‘Thank you for your eternal love and affection,’ tweets an emotional Amitabh Bachchan from the hospitalEarlier today both my father and I tested positive for COVID 19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you. ?? — Abhishek Bachchan (@juniorbachchan) July 11, 2020In another tweet he said, “The BMC has been in touch and we are complying with them.”Abhishek Bachchan had recently shared a note on the release of his Web Series, Breathe: Into the shadows. He wrote, “As an actor, our greatest joy is to receive a positive response to our hard work. Reading all your beautiful comments all day has been so wonderful and emotional."" Also Read - Abhishek Bachchan confirms that dad Amitabh and him will be hospitalized; Aishwarya Rai-Aaradhya quarantining at homeHe added, ""The credit has to go entirely to Mayank Sharma my incredible director. His conviction has been such a guiding light. To the great team of writers; Bhavani Iyer, Vikram Tuli and Arshad Syed. To Abundantia Entertainment our producers, especially Vikram Malhotra for not just co-creating the show but being such a champion of it. Never losing hope and strengthening our resolve whenever we wavered. To an incredible crew, who worked tirelessly and made the show look so awesome. And most importantly did it with a huge smile.""Amitabh Bachchan keeps updating fans about his life and also shares trivia from his career. He recently took to Instagram to reveal that he shot his first drunk scene in the film Mili which also starred wife Jaya Bachchan. Sharing the artwork of the poster of the film, he wrote, ""Art work for our film MILI .. Jaya and me .. and my first drunk scene .. much before mirror scene of AAA, Satte Pe Satta and HUM or Shakti.""We hope for their speedy recovery."
Web Desk,"Khatron Ke Khiladi 10: 'Picture abhi baaki hai,' Karan Patel opens up on the finale of the season",2020-07-11,"Karan Patel is one of the most sought actors we have in the television industry. The actor who was last seen in Yeh Hai Mohabbatein entered Rohit Shetty's stunt-based reality TV show Fear Factor: Khatron Ke Khiladi's season 10. The new episodes of which are now being aired on the channel. Earlier, reports of the finale of Khatron Ke Khiladi 10 to be shot in Mumbai's Filmcity had been doing the rounds. Karan Patel opened up on the same. Also Read - Karan Patel takes a dig at Kangana Ranaut's nepotism tirade, asks, 'Why didn't she cast Sushant in her film?’In an interview with Pinkvilla, Karan said, ""The finale is also upcoming. It is very exciting because the stunts which are being shown now, these are the main ones. Pehle toh apne trailer dekha tha, picture toh abhi aa rahi hai. (You have watched the trailer. You are yet to watch the whole film)."" Also Read - Khatron Ke Khiladi 10, 11 July 2020 written update: Dharmesh becomes the first finalist; Tejasswi Prakash faints during the ticket to finale stuntTalking about the finale, Karan revealed that it will be shot on the 20th of this month. It is being said that, apart from Karan, Karishma Tanna has been approached for the extended edition. He had also opened up on Ekta Kapoor approaching him for Naagin 5 and Mr. Bajaj at the same time. ""I was approached. Yes, but then Ekta decided that let’s not waste him here, as she was considering me for Mr Bajaj. Ek taraf Bajaj aur dusri taraf dasega toh kaise lagega and that’s when she decided to not do it,"" he had told the portal. Also Read - Karan Patel, Bigg Boss 14, Charu Asopa — meet the TV newsmakers of the weekFurther, Karan revealed that since he began shooting for Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2, he had not met any cast of the show. ""I have never met them. Never even interacted with them. We have never crossed paths. I must have seen them around near the studio, but we never interacted much. In fact, I don’t know anyone on the set. For me, it will be like going to a new batch after a vacation."""
Web Desk,Ranveer Singh on cheating Deepika Padukone: I have bagged myself the top-most chick,2020-07-11,"Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone make for one of the hottest couples in the entertainment industry. Their social media PDA is one of the most talked things about their relationship camaraderie. Ranveer and Deepika love pulling each other's leg be it in public or on social media. The two have been dating each other for 6 years before they tied the knot in 2018. Both, of course, broke several hearts but earned a new fandom forever. Also Read - After Gully Boy and Takht, Alia Bhatt and Ranveer Singh to reunite for THIS project?On TypeCast, Ranveer Singh was asked about how has he been keeping from temptation in Bollywood. His answer will win your hearts and be ready to fall in love with the Goliyon Ki Rasleela Ram-Leela actor yet again. ""I have bagged myself the top-most chick, so what do I have to worry about. I have never met anybody in my life who has captivated me like the way she does. I have been seeing her for six years before we got married and that is testament to the fact that no other person has been or will be good enough to tempt me. She (Deepika) is really something else,"" he gushed about his actress wife. Also Read - The Kapil Sharma Show: When Ranveer Singh 'humiliated' the host at his weddingRanveer also opened on how they have been spending time together. ""Honestly, there aren't any issues. When we are home and together, we are super chill. We are best friends first and that is the most beautiful part of our relationship. Fortunately, we are both in the same line of work, so we always have a lot of talk about,"" Ranveer said on the show. Also Read - Kiara Advani’s topless photoshoot, Kareena Kapoor Khan’s look from Laal Singh Chaddha – 11 VIRAL pictures of 2020 that cannot be missedTalking about the work front, Ranveer will be next seen in Kabir Khan's 83 in which he portrays the role of Kapil Dev. Deepika Padukone would be collaborating with her husband for the first time after their wedding with this film. Deepika will step in for Romi Dev."
Web Desk,"'I'm forever in your debt,' Varalaxmi Sarathkumar has an emotional birthday wish for director Bala",2020-07-11,"Filmmaker Bala turns a year older today. The man is loved by audiences in Tamil Nadu. Bala who was an assistant of venerated filmmaker Balu Mahendra has directed some award-winning movies. He is the one who made Chiyaan Vikram a star with his film, Sethu that was remade in so many Indian languages. His films like Nandha, Pithamagan and Naan Kadavul have got many awards. In fact, in his career he has bagged a total of six National Awards. On the occasion of his birthday, his protege, Varalaxmi Sarathkumar had a emotional birthday wish for him. She shared their pictures and wrote, ""Happpppppyyyy birthdayyyyyyy to my god...!!!! He made me the actress I am today...!!! I’m forever in your debt... Happy birthday #balasir god bless you..!!!! Your suravalliiiiiiiii...!!!!!"" Also Read - Tenali Ramakrishna BA.BL Teaser: This Sundeep Kishan and Hansika-starrer promises to be a comical entertainerBala directed Varalaxmi Sarathkumar in the film, Tharai Thappattai,where she played the role of a dancer, Sooravali. The movie won an award for its music at the 63rd National Film Awards. It was Illayaraja's 1000th film. Varalaxmi was much appreciated for her performance as a dancer. Critics had appreciated the dark film about love immensely. Of late, she became popular for her negative role in Sarkar. Also Read - Varalaxmi Sarathkumar lashes out at Vishal over Nadigar Sangam elections campaign videoIn an old interview, she had spoken about her selection for the film. She said, ""One day, my friend Sangeetha Krish called and suggested we meet Bala sir. We met him at a recording studio where the RR for his earlier film Paradesi was going on. In the next two days, he screen-tested me, and then gave me an envelope with his name Bala written on it — telling me that he’d selected me for the role of a Karagattam dancer in Thaarai Thappattai. I went speechless — it was the best moment of my life."" Also Read - Varalaxmi Sarathkumar wants to say those three magical words to Prabhas"
Web Desk,"'Talent everywhere deserves a chance to shine,' Abhay Deol pens a hard-hitting note on nepotism",2020-07-11,"A former television and Hindi Film actor Sushant Singh Rajput's demise has flared up the debate on nepotism in like never before. Sushant's suicide has shocked everyone and alongside nepotism, lobbying, camp-ism, group-ism has also been talked about. A while ago, Abhay Deol had shared a poster of his film, Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara and revealed that for an awards show, he and his costar, Farhan Akhtar were demoted from leads to supporting cast. This had shocked the fans yet again. Now, recently, the actor opened up on nepotism with a hard-hitting post. Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today: Sooryavanshi, ’83 theatrical release; Kartik Aaryan’s film stalledAbhay Deol began his post with his 'dad' veteran actor Dharmendra's journey in the Hindi Film industry. ""My uncle, whom I affectionately call dad, was an outsider who made it big in the film industry. I’m glad there is an active debate on the practices behind the scenes. Nepotism is just the tip of the iceberg. I’ve only ever made one film with my family, my 1st, and I’m grateful to be blessed and have that privileged. I’ve gone that extra mile in my career to make my own path, something that dad always encouraged. For me he was the inspiration,"" he wrote in his post. Also Read - Farhan Akhtar on Abhay Deol’s claim of being sidelined for ZNMD: Have you come here to be a reality star?View this post on Instagram A post shared by Abhay Deol (@abhaydeol) on Jul 10, 2020 at 9:34pm PDTNext, he went on to talk about nepotism, ""Nepotism is prevalent everywhere in our culture, be it in politics, business, or film. I was well aware of it and it pushed me to take chances with new directors and producers throughout my career. That is how I was able to make movies that were considered “out of the box.” I’m glad some of those artists and films went on to have tremendous success."" And added that the word and the situation surrounding the same has taken a whole new dimension in the country. Also Read - Sushant Singh Rajput's demise pushed Abhay Deol to speak against the lobbying culture in Bollywood""While it plays a part in every country, nepotism has taken on another dimension here in India. I suspect caste plays a major role in it being more pronounced here than in other parts of the world. After all, it is “jati” that dictates that a son carry on the work of his father, while the daughter is expected to marry and be a housewife.""In his post, Abhay went on to talk about providing equal opportunities for everyone. He said that the industry needs a culture revolution to beat nepotism. ""If we are serious about making changes for the better, then focusing on only one aspect, one industry, while ignoring the many others, will be incomplete and possibly counter productive. We need a cultural evolution. After all, where do our filmmakers, politicians and businessmen come from? They are people just like everyone. They grow up within the same system as everybody else. They are a reflection of their culture. Talent everywhere deserves a chance to shine in his or her medium. As we have learnt over the past few weeks, there are several ways in which an artist is either uplifted to success, or beaten down to failure. I’m glad more actors are coming out today and speaking of their experiences. I’ve been vocal about mine for years now, but as a lone voice I could only do so much. It’s easy to smear one artist for speaking out, and I have been at the receiving end from time to time. But as a group, a collective, that becomes difficult. Maybe now is our watershed moment."""
Web Desk,THIS is how Paras Chhabra will celebrate in his birthday with Mahira Sharma,2020-07-11,"Bigg Boss 13 was all about couples. One of the jodis that got a lot of love is Paras Chhabra and Mahira Sharma. Well, Paras Chhabra is celebrating his birthday with the Lehenga girl. He flew down to Chandigarh last night. Paras Chhabra was spotted at the airport by the paparazzi. A source informs us, ""Paras Chhabra has gone to Chandigarh for a music video. He flew in early to spend more time with Mahira. The video is being made by a top local company. Mahira Sharma has been in Chandigarh for more than a week now. She is shooting for music videos."" Also Read - Hashtag Love Soniyea song: Paras Chhabra and Mahira Sharma's chemistry again come up trumpsThe two have maintained that they are good friends. Paras Chhabra has said that he is just friends but if the friendship organically blooms into love, he will think about it. The handsome hunk broke up with Aakanksha Puri when he was inside the Bigg Boss 13 house. After that, there has been a lot of mud-slinging from both sides. Aakanksha Puri has spoken about how she supported him throughout since past two years. He has accused her for tarnishing his image by saying that he was financially dependent on her. Also Read - Paras Chhabra and Mahira Sharma record a song Hashtag Love from their homesParas and Mahira have apparently been approached for Nach Baliye as well. Some makers in Punjab are seen to do movies with them. Paras Chhabra was also in the news for Naagin 5 and Khatron Ke Khiladi 11. The couple are lovingly known as #PaHira. Paras Chhabra who is from Vrindavan is quite fluent in Punjabi. Mahira Sharma is an established star there with Lehenga being a global sensation. It has crossed 800 million views on YouTube. Also Read - Mahira Sharma opens up on her relationship with Paras Chhabra"
Web Desk,RIP Sushant Singh Rajput: Late actor's hometown Purnea names a road after him,2020-07-11,"A road and a roundabout here have been renamed in memory of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, a resident of Bihar. The people of Purnea, Sushant's home district, had been demanding the renaming of a road and chowk in memory of the actor. The municipal corporation has now changed the name of Ford Company Chowk to Sushant Singh Rajput Chowk. Savita Devi, the mayor of Purnea, inaugurated the newly renamed road and chowk, pictures of which have gone viral on social media. Also Read - Karan Patel takes a dig at Kangana Ranaut's nepotism tirade, asks, 'Why didn't she cast Sushant in her film?’Devi said that Sushant was a great artist and to name the road after him is a tribute to him. The mayor said that the road that goes from Madhubani to Mata Chowk will now be known as Sushant Singh Rajput Road. Not only this, the name of the roundabout of the famous car company has also been changed to Sushant Singh Rajput Chowk. People of the state, including some organisations, are demanding a CBI probe into the actor's death. Sushant had allegedly committed suicide on June 14 at his flat in Mumbai's Bandra. Also Read - Trending Tunes: Sushant Singh Rajput's Khairiyat is back on the chart"
Web Desk,A Suitable Boy trailer: Ishaan Khatter and Tabu’s ‘kalankit’ romance forms the crux,2020-07-11,"Boy, we don’t remember seeing such an impactful trailer of late. Mira Nair seems to be in fine form as she directs BBC One’s 6 part adaptation of Vikram Seth’s coming of age story A Suitable Boy. Ishaan Khatter and Tabu’s kalankit romance forms the crux of it. The series also stars Ram Kapoor, Tanya Maniktala and Rasika Dugal, among others. It is set in 1951, around the same time that the country is preparing for its first general elections. Also Read - Rakul Preet Singh on De De Pyaar De 2: I am already looking forward to working with the same team againBL verdictThis minute-long trailer packs in a lot of things and is enough to excite you for the series. Also Read - Happy birthday Pooja Bedi: Walk down memory lane on the diva's 50th birthday with these rare throwback pics"
Web Desk,"Shocking! Shweta Tiwari's ex-husband Abhinav Kohli asked daughter Palak about her virginity, alleges the actress' friend",2020-07-11,"Shweta Tiwari's personal life has always been in the news. She has started living separately from her second husband, Abhinav Kohli since last year. This happened after she filed an FIR on him for domestic violence and inappropriate behaviour with her daughter, Palak. She is her daughter from her first marriage with Raja Chaudhary. Now, in a shocking turn of events, Shweta Tiwari's good friend Anuraddha Sarin who is a producer has alleged that Abhinav Kohli's behaviour with Palak was very inappropriate. She has said that he asked her questions like if she is a virgin or has she kissed a guy. She spoke about one incident when Palak Tiwari complained of stomach ache and he asked her if she is pregnant. Also Read - Shweta Tiwari's ex-husband, Abhinav Kohli, warns fans to stop vulgar comments on Palak Tiwari; threatens legal actionAnuraddha Sarin has come out publicly in support of Shweta Tiwari. Some days back, Abhinav Kohli said that she is not allowing him to meet their son, Reyaaansh for a long time. He said that he has not met the boy since May 15. Abhinav Kohli said that Shweta Tiwari made him run errands when she was busy with the shoot of Meri Dad Ki Dulhan. He said he cared for the child. Kohli has said that she called the security and got him thrown out of the building. Also Read - Shweta Tiwari posts a cryptic post after ex-husband Abhinav Kohli shares details about her and PalakHe had also alleged that the charges made by Palak were fake. In the press conference of Mere Dad Ki Dulhan, Shweta Tiwari said, ""Achha? Dobara bhi problem? Aisa ho nahi sakta. Aisa kyu nahi ho sakta? At least I have the guts that if I faced a problem again, I could speak up about my problems without any fear whatsoever. What others think of me is none of my concern. I will only do what is right for my child and my personal growth."" She described her second marriage as an infection that needed to be removed. Also Read - ‘It was a planned meeting,’ Abhinav Kohli on posting a video of Shweta Tiwari with actor Fahmaan Khan"
Web Desk,Will Smith's wife Jada Pinkett Smith reveals having an affair with August Alsina,2020-07-11,"American actor Jada Pinkett Smith has revealed that she was having an affair with singer August Alsina, while she was married to Will Smith. She said that about four and a half years ago when their marriage was going through a rough patch, and she was separated from Smith with the intention to divorce, she had a relationship with Alsina. Also Read - Will Smith's daughter Willow Smith offered to direct an adult filmDuring a conversation with her husband Will Smith on his Facebook Watch series, 'Red Table Talk', Pinkett explained, ""I started a friendship with August and we actually became really, really good friends."" She added that she wanted to help the musician with his mental state and found resources to help pull him through a troubling time. Also Read - Jada Pinkett Smith opens up about growing up with a drug addict fatherThe actor revealed, ""I got into a different kind of entanglement with August. It was a relationship, absolutely. I was in a lot of pain. I was very broken. In the process of that relationship, I definitely realized you can't find happiness outside of yourself. I would definitely say we did everything that we could to get away from each other, only to realize that that wasn’t possible."" Also Read - Will Smith opens up on his issue with daughter Willow Smith; says he dealt with the family like a soldierWatch the conversation below:She also questioned why Alsina would bring the episode up again, saying he had broken off communication with her. She also denied the idea that Smith had given her permission for the affair. Alsina was quoted in an interview as saying the actor had given his “blessing.”“The only person that can give permission in that particular circumstance is myself,” Pinkett Smith said and added, “I could actually see how he would perceive it as permission because we were separated amicably. And I think he also wanted to make it clear that he is not a homewrecker, because he’s not,” she said.The two have been married since 1997 and have two children, Jaden and Willow. They appeared uncomfortable at times during their exchanges on the talk show.At one point in the conversation they said, “We ride together. We die together. Bad marriage for life.” It had a reference to a catchphrase in Smith’s Bad Boys franchise."
Web Desk,"Koel Mallick and her dad, veteran actor Ranjit Mallick test positive for COVID-19",2020-07-11,"Bengali star Koel Mallick and her father, veteran actor Ranjit Mallick, have tested Covid-19 positive. Koel took to social media to share the news with her fans. She said that along with herself, her parents and husband Nispal Singh, nicknamed Rane, have all tested positive, and therefore self-quarantined. ""Baba Ma Rane and I are tested COVID-19 Positive... self quarantined!"" Koel wrote. The actress delivered a baby boy on May 5. The 38-year-old actress was last seen in the film ""Bony"" co-starring Parambrata Chatterjee and Anjan Dutt. She is one of the biggest stars of Tollywood, as the Bengali film industry is known, and has delivered a series of hits since her debut film ""Nater Guru"" in 2003. Also Read - Bengali actress Koel Mallick blessed with a baby boy; Tollywood fraternity sends their best wishesNo sooner did Koel post the news, industry colleagues and fans started posting messages wishing her quick recovery. ""Get well soon... all will be good… God bless,"" wrote Bengali superstar Prosenjeet. Also Read - Saswata Chatterjee: I am part of Ray household"
Web Desk,#6YearsOfHSKD: Sidharth Shukla fans shower love on him as Varun Dhawan-Alia Bhatt's film completes six years,2020-07-11,"Bigg Boss 13 winner Sidharth Shukla is still remembered for his role as Angad from Humpty Sharma Ki Dulhania. It was the actor's Bollywood debut. Filmmaker Karan Johar had spotted him on Jhalak Dikhhlaa Jaa and decided to cast him seeing his immense popularity. The actor was playing Shiv on Balika Vadhu at that time. Varun Dhawan and Alia Bhatt had also spoken about how Sidharth Shukla's immense popularity surprised them. Humpty Sharma Ki Dulhania is one of the favourite films of Varun Dhawan and Alia Bhatt fans. Today, they are celebrating its sixth anniversary. Sidharth Shukla fans are trending #6YearsOfSidharthInHSKD on social media. Also Read - Sidharth Shukla and Neha Sharma team up for a music video Dil Ko Karaar Aaye — read deetsSidharth Shukla and Varun Dhawan had a reunion on Bigg Boss 13 when he came for the promotions of Street Dancer 3D. The actor said that Sidharth Shukla is a thorough gentleman and a truly chivalrous guy. He also mentioned that he would be really protective of Alia Bhatt and him during the promotions. In fact, Varun also worked with Asim Riaz in Main Tero Hero. Some fans are upset that Dharma Movies has forgotten to mention Sidharth Shukla's name on their official handle. This is how they reacted on the same... Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – RIP Jagdeep, Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?I'll be very honest , I haven't watched Humpty Sharma .I never felt like watching it but after I became Sidharth's fan , I did watch those scenes where he was present . He was great. #6YearsOfSidharthInHSKD #6YearsOfHSKD — Shayni ? (@curlmoohiii) July 11, 2020VARIA is the first on screen couple I ship ?@aliaa08 @Varun_dvn I love you both so much ❤️#6YearsOfHSKD pic.twitter.com/rEXnfjQ3Q6 — Alia's fangirl? (@AliaaAdorer) July 11, 2020Insta story of Shashank KhaitanHe tagged Everyone but not SidharthI am fuming???? Wow???#6YearsOfSidharthInHSKD pic.twitter.com/ZjUpOVzL6x — Sidharth Shukla (@sidharth_shuklb) July 11, 2020Just see how people love @sidharth_shukla unconditionally This all comments under HSKD trailer and 6years pehle ka comments hai People are literally crazy for him #6YearsOfSidharthInHSKD pic.twitter.com/eujkLjy1Bd — JO¥ ?⚡ (@Sid_Kook) July 11, 2020#6YearsOfSidharthInHSKD Congratulations ??Sid for 6 year in Humpty Sharma ki dulhaniya .lots of love for you ?❤. I wish you can do many blockbuster movies in future. I am waiting for that time. I love you so so much handsome hunk .???@sidharth_shukla #SidharthShukla pic.twitter.com/M5BwYdeR78 — ❤Sunita yadav ❤ (@Sunitay10570916) July 11, 2020#Nepotism ke pappa Sri Sri @karanjohar ji Maharaj @DharmaMovies' Karma are pure #ADharma@sidharth_shukla is one of the lead characters and yet his name is not mentioned in your celebration of 6 years of #HumptySharmaKiDulhania.. Isn't that a Shame! Any explanatory Pravachans ? https://t.co/YlFJNVZ7ui — HerdHUSH (@HerdHUSH) July 11, 2020This is what @sidharth_shukla has achieve he is trending at india at no 2 Nepotism producers didn't mentioned his name but his fans are reforming their misdeeds His fans are always their for him keep loving him #6YearsOfSidharthInHSKD pic.twitter.com/smVZAHFEWq — Akul Thakur (@jonberiat) July 11, 2020He was equally an important part in HSKD if you follow the storyline.Still they didn't mention his name anywhere!Whatever! We, his fans are here to hype him, to love him and to adore him!Humare Dilon mein raj krta hai humara Angad aka @sidharth_shukla ❤️#6YearsOfSidharthInHSKD pic.twitter.com/g6YhfZNMri — Srijasree |? ‏سریجاسری ?♡ (@DuniyaSidNaazKi) July 11, 2020Some time back, Shashank Khaitan said in an interview that he met Sidharth Shukla some days before his entry inside the Bigg Boss 13 house. He said that Sidharth Shukla was a very real person who had no delusions about Bollywood. It seems he had told Shashank Khaitan in his first meeting that he knew that no one would launch him as he did not belong to the industry and was glad for whatever opportunities came his way. It seems Sidharth Shukla is in talks for a couple of films. Also Read - Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up for THIS show?"
Web Desk,"Ankita Lokhande gets moving messages from fans after Sushant Singh Rajput's death, 'A part of his heart is alive in you'",2020-07-11,"Sushant Singh Rajput's death has left his fans in mourning. The tragic demise of the actor left us wondering what made him take that drastic step in life. Our hearts go out to his family and loved ones. Ankita Lokhande who was in a relationship with the actor for six long years paid a visit to the family a day after his funeral. She visited them along with her mother and friend Sandip Ssingh. Friends have spoken about how Ankita Lokhande is struggling to come on terms with the loss. Arti Singh said she just needs the space to recover. In the mean time, Vicky Jain her beau has limited comments on his social media page as people are giving various opinions. Also Read - Ankita Lokhande's beau, Vicky Jain, limits comments on Instagram like Karan Johar, Alia Bhatt and coA fan in a moving and sad comment, wrote, ""I HAVE NOTHING BUT UTMOST RESPECT FOR YOU. Thank you for loving Sushant and for supporting him. I think besides his family, only you ever truly cared about him. You were loyal to him, you stuck by him in his struggling days and never left his side till he ended the relationship. This must be so hard for you! I never met him but even I think about him constantly and can barely stop crying! This feels like such a heavy painful loss even to people who never met him. He was a beautiful human being Ankita and I think you deserve some credit for that. He spent 6 years of his life with you.. he spent his prime youth with you. I’m sure your goodness and grace helped him become the amazing man that we all knew and loved. Stay strong Ankita, for Sushant’s sake. YOU WERE THE LOVE OF HIS LIFE and I’m sure he would hate to see you like this. Please be happy and live every day for its fullest. Sushant is not dead. He is alive in you! I’m sure he is watching over you and would love nothing more than for you to flourish. Ankita, Sushant achieved a lot in his life and he was yet to achieve a lot more but Ankita you can achieve for him! By fulfilling your dreams and being the best version of yourself. Ankita he loved you and you were a part of his heart. Remember a part of his heart is alive in you. Don’t let that heart be sad. My best wishes to you."" Also Read - Did you know the real name of Sushant Singh Rajput's ex-girlfriend is not Ankita Lokhande?View this post on Instagram ???☔️ A post shared by Ankita Lokhande (@lokhandeankita) on Jun 13, 2020 at 12:27am PDTA number of fans have written moving posts for her asking her to stay strong in this terrible phase. They have also asked Vicky Jain to take special care of her in this period. Sandip Ssingh also wrote some moving lines for Ankita Lokhande in a post. He said she cared for Sushant Singh Rajput like a mother. We are sure fans of the duo are going through a sea of emotions. Also Read - RIP Sushant Singh Rajput: Arti Singh opens up on how Ankita Lokhande is coping up with the late actor’s demise"
Web Desk,It’s Expensive! Deepika Padukone’s Louis Vuitton bag is almost as costly as a Maruti Alto,2020-07-11,"Bollywood’s top actresses have an immense love for luxury handbags and Deepika Padukone is no different. Today, let us take a look at her Louis Vuitton shoulder/cross body bag that comes at a staggering price. From the looks of it, the bag looks very simple. But when you check the price tag, you know it is meant only for the rich and the famous. Louis Vuitton bags are synonymous with luxury and on the wish-list of every woman who loves handbags. The price of the bag is $3,900 which is around Rs 2,93,280. Also Read - Ranveer Singh on cheating Deepika Padukone: I have bagged myself the top-most chickShe is carrying a LV Pont 9 handbag that is made from cowhide. The bag’s flap is adorned by the classic House signature reinterpreted by Nicolas Ghesquiere. The strap also has a buckle. The strap is adjustable. The bag has a coloured leather lining and monogram flower magnetic closure. As we can see, the bag is not very roomy but perfect for that evening outing when you just need some stuff with you. Deepika Padukone teamed it with a trench coat, shirt and denims. The bag added a pop of colour. Also Read - The Kapil Sharma Show: When Ranveer Singh 'humiliated' the host at his weddingDeepika Padukone is very fond of handbags. We have seen her flaunt luxury brands like Hermes Birkin, Dior, Yves Saint Laurent with panache on various occasions. This particular piece from Louis Vuitton is quite popular with the ladies. The bright blue colour is vibrant to add a pop of colour to any outfit. Deepika Padukone looks great in the overall ensemble. Anushka Sharma is also very fond of Louis Vuitton shoulder bags. These ladies slowly know how to splurge! Also Read - This throwback picture of Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Deepika Padukone will remind you of the good old days"
Web Desk,"Sara Ali Khan's twinning moment with mom Amrita Singh and Karan Johar, Ranbir Kapoor celebrating Neetu Kapoor's birthday went viral this week",2020-07-11,"Once again, we saw our celebs sharing plenty of stuff on social, which went viral in no time and garnered millions of likes and comments. While Sara Ali Khan's twinning and winning moment with mom Amrita Singh was too cute for words, Karan Johar made Neetu Kapoor's birthday celebrations special by attending it along with Ranbir Kapoor. So, let's check out these viral pics. Also Read - Karan Johar joins Ranbir Kapoor in celebrating Neetu Kapoor's birthdaySara Ali Khan twins with mom Amrita SinghSimmba and Kedarnath actress, Sara Ali Khan, recently shared a pic on her social media account, in which she is twinning with mom and veteran actress Amrita Singh in a multicoloured Kurta. The anarkalis had colour-blocked panels in shades of pink, yellow and orange, which were alternated with a blue palette. Also Read - This throwback picture of Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Deepika Padukone will remind you of the good old daysKaran Johar joins Ranbir Kapoor in Neetu Kapoor's birthday celebrationNeetu Kapoor recently celebrated her 62nd birthday, and it was quite a memorable one. In the celebration pics, we see Ranbir Kapoor giving a huge hug to mom Neetu. Filmmaker Karan Johar also attended the party along with Adaar Jain. Neetu Kapoor took to social media to share some of the pictures. We can see her grand-daughter Samaira bonding with Ranbir. Also Read - Ranbir Kapoor joins sister Riddhima in celebrating mom Neetu Kapoor's birthdayAkshay Kumar with his gang in the new poster of Bell BottomVery rare we see film posters getting viral on social media and Akshay Kumar's Bell Bottom was one of that. In the poster, we see Akki with gorgeous actresses Vaani Kapoor, Huma Qureshi, Lara Dutta along with producer Jackky Bhagnani and director Ranjit Tewari.Sanjana Sanghi's BTS still with late Sushant Singh Rajput from the sets of Dil BecharaSushant Singh Rajput's Dil Bechara costar Sanjana Sanghi recently shared a BTS pic of her with the late actor from the sets just to make us teary-eyed and emotional as we see SSR's innocent smile in that pic.Sidharth Malhotra shares a throwback pic of enjoying sky-divingWhile we are waiting for this pandemic to get over and go on a trip, Shershaah actor, Sidharth Malhotra feels the same as he shared a pic of enjoying sky-diving from his throwback exotic trip which looks breathtaking."
Web Desk,"Karan Patel, Bigg Boss 14, Charu Asopa — meet the TV newsmakers of the week",2020-07-11,"It is the weekend and we can now look back at the last seven days that have passed. The whole week contained many interesting stories from the television industry. Karan Patel's look as Mr. Bajaj, Salman Khan charging a whopping amount for the Weekend ka Vaar episodes of Bigg Boss 14, Charu Asopa and husband Rajeev Sen's troubled marriage – a lot of things went down. So, without further ado, let’s take a look at the TV Newsmakers of the week: Also Read - Khatron Ke Khiladi 10, 11 July 2020 written update: Dharmesh becomes the first finalist; Tejasswi Prakash faints during the ticket to finale stuntKaran PatelKaran Patel has been in the news this week as his new look has come out. He replaced Karan Singh Grover as Mr. Bajaj in Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2 and fans are loving his salt-and-pepper look. Karan Patel revealed his first reaction when he got the offer. In an interview with Pinkvilla, he said, ""When I was approached, I was like Mr Bajaj is an iconic and challenging character. Earlier, Ronit Roy did it and then Karan did a good job. So, before saying yes I deliberated if I could shoulder the responsibility and then I took a day or two and then decided to give it a try."" Also Read - Khatron Ke Khiladi 10: 'Picture abhi baaki hai,' Karan Patel opens up on the finale of the seasonBigg Boss 14View this post on Instagram A post shared by biggboss12 (@biggboss12_officalpage) on Sep 18, 2018 at 2:51am PDTBigg Boss 14 is in the news this week. It is the time of year when Bigg Boss promos are out and we start speculating who will be a part of the show. Salman Khan begins shooting for the promos of the show but this time nothing of this sort has happened due to COVID-19. There were reports of Salman Khan quitting the show after the last season. However, as per the latest buzz, not only will Salman return to the show but has also raised his fees. Yes, as per the latest buzz the Bharat actor is charging a whopping Rs 16 crore per episode. Yes, you read that right. If reports are to be believed, Salman has raised his fees per episode. Meanwhile, this time, there would be about 16 contestants which will have 13 celebrities and 3 commoners. Various celebrities like Karan kundrra, Surbhi Jyoti, Jasmin Bhasin, Ishq Mein Marjawan actress Alisha Panwar, Ishqbaaaz actress Mansi Srivastava had been approached for the fourteenth season. Also Read - Karan Patel on pay cuts: I will ask my producer to pay the makeup people and other guys before meCharu Asopa and Rajeev SenView this post on Instagram A post shared by charu asopa sen fanpage (@charuasopaworld) on Mar 26, 2020 at 2:20am PDTCharu Asopa and Rajeev Sen have been in the news recently for all wrong reasons. The two got married in June last year. However, as per reports, things have not been good between them. The two did not celebrate their first wedding anniversary and are also living separately. It was reported that Charu Asopa and Rajeev Sen have deleted their pictures from social media. Yes, the two have deleted all their pictures together and also the wedding pictures from their Instagram accounts. This made fans believe that the two have separated. Rajeev spoke about it in a chat with Spotboye and said that he is in a happy zone while Charu denied commenting on it.Shweta Tiwari and Abhinav KohliShweta Tiwari and Abhinav Kohli have been living separately for some time now. This had happened after she accused him of domestic violence. Abhinav Kohli has slammed all her allegations of late. He has taken to social media to write how much he is missing his 2-year-old son, Reyaansh. He posted a picture of Reyaansh and wrote about how Shweta Tiwari is not allowing him to meet their son. He wrote on Instagram, ""I miss you. It’s been 1 month and 23 days since your mummy seperated us. I love you beyond words and surely by God’s grace I will hug you tight very soon."" Abhinav Kohli, in a long interview to The Times of India, said that Shweta Tiwari is not allowing him inside her building. It seems he was looking after Reyaansh when she was away shooting for Meri Dad Ki Dulhan. He said she was letting him meet Reyaansh till May, but later told him to stay away as she feared coronavirus.Paras Chhabra and Akanksha PuriBigg Boss 13 contestant Paras Chhabra's fans had recently leaked Akanksha Puri's chats with a shoe brand, wherein she’s in discussion with a stylist to borrow a pair of shoes for Paras. An Instagram page has shared a screenshot of those chats. The caption read, ""Chats Screen gets out ! Was it well planned ro malgin @parasvchhabrra ???"" Paras Chhabra was asked about the same in a chat with Spotboye. He said,"" There were times I was maligned and kept saying it’s untrue, finally the truth has come out ."" Akanksha Puri also reacted to those chats shared by Paras Chhabra's fans. As per a report in Spotboye, Akanksha shared a set of images that showed that the leaked chats of Paras' fans, which have been circulating, are for another pair of shoes (white) which she had sent, too, but Paras never wore them. She further clarified that the red shoes were bought by her and they were not that expensive. Akanksha sent the chat between her and the designer talking about the payment of the shoes to the entertainment portal."
Web Desk,"Trending Entertainment News Today: Radhe Shyam first look, Dil Bechara title song, Rohit Shetty's fake encounter",2020-07-11,"As the night sky spreads across the green earth, it's time to look back at the biggest newsmakers who've made it to the trending entertainment news today. From the mesmerizing first look of Prabhas and Pooja Hegde’s Radhe Shyam and Amitabh Bachchan’s grandson, Agastya Nanda, entering Bollywood to Adhyayan Summan exposing Bollywood groupism by revealing he lost 14 films due to wrongly reported box-office figures, Twitter comparing gangster Vikas Dubey's fake encounter to Rohit Shetty's films and Sushant Singh Rajput’s performance and AR Rahman’s music making the Dil Bechara title track hitherto the year’s best song – Bollywood and Tollywood news grabbed all the headlines today to make it to the trending entertainment news today. Also Read - Radhe Shyam: Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's poster gets a coronavirus TWIST from Assam Police — view picSo, without further ado, here are the entertainment newsmakers of 11th July 2020:Check out the mesmerizing first look of Prabhas and Pooja Hegde’s Radhe ShyamFinally, it is time! The makers of Prabhas' 20th film have revealed the title and first look. Krish Jagarlamudi's film is Radhe Shyam and boy, how handsome is Prabhas looking. We can see the hunk in a white suit while Pooja Hegde is resplendent in a red gown. The stunning backdrop adds to the vibe. With colours like red, yellow and gold in the backdrop, it is so royal. Also Read - Week That Was South: Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's Radhe Shyam first look released, Allu Arjun shares an adorable pic of daughter ArhaRead the full story here:Radhe Shyam! Prabhas-Pooja Hegde spell romance as makers reveal FIRST LOOK and TITLE Also Read - #5YearsOfBaahubali: Tamannaah Bhatia recalls her look test for Avanthika in Prabhas-Rana Daggubati starrerAmitabh Bachchan’s grandson, Agastya Nanda, to enter Bollywood?It seems another star kid (or should we say star grandkid?) is all set to enter Bollywood. Amitabh Bachchan’s grandson Agastya Nanda wants to be an actor and has been prepping for it. He’s 19 and has a huge fan-following on social media. It is believed that he’s already got film offers but will take them up when he feels he’s ready.Read the full story here:Amitabh Bachchan’s grandson, Agastya Nanda, to enter Bollywood?Adhyayan Summan reveals 14 films of his were shelved due to wrong BO figuresShekhar Suman's son Adhyayan Suman has said that more than nepotism it is groupism that kills the aspirations of many actors. In an interview, he has stated that 'power dynamics' in Bollywood and distorted box-office figures led as to as many as 14 of his movies being shelved.Read the full story here:Adhyayan Sumann says 'groupism' in Bollywood bigger problem than nepotism, says 14 of his films were shelved due to 'wrongly projected' box-office figuresTwitter compares gangster Vikas Dubey's fake encounter to Rohit Shetty's filmsGangster Vikas Dubey was killed in an encounter today and meme-makers made some hilarious memes. Many felt that the encounter was fake and hence filmmaker Rohit Shetty, who has shown fake police encounters in his films, was featured in most memes.Read the full story here:Twitter compares gangster Vikas Dubey's ‘fake encounter’ with Rohit Shetty's film script, churns out hilarious memes!Sushant Singh Rajput’s performance and AR Rahman’s music make the Dil Bechara title track hitherto the year’s best songDil Bechara's title track will put a smile on your face as Sushant Singh Rajput enters in style. His radiant smile is the highlight of the song. AR Rahman's voice as usual is pleasing to the ear. Amitabh Bhattacharya has done a great job with the lyrics and Sushant's spectacular moves make this one a hit. His charming personality will win your hearts.Read the full story here:Dil Bechara title song: Sushant Singh Rajput's scintillating performance and AR Rahman's mesmerising voice make it the best track of 2020"
Web Desk,Kareena Kapoor Khan’s latest Instagram post on 2020 is relatable AF,2020-07-11,"Kareena Kapoor Khan is one beautiful actress we have in the Hindi Film Industry. She made her acting debut with Refugee about 20 years ago as a naive Nazneen 'Naaz' Ahmed. She went on to do some diverse roles in her career and is still everyone's favourite. She is unabashedly herself off-screen and many love her for the DIVA she is. The actress made her Instagram debut in March this year and took the social media by a storm. Since then, the actress had been sharing a lot of pictures and moments from her daily life with her fans. Also Read - Taimur's bond with Ranvir is same as mommy Kareena Kapoor Khan's with BFF Reena Pillai - this picture is proofRecently, Kareena Kapoor Khan shared a picture on her Instagram handle which is a pure candid. What caught out attention is her caption that is so relatable that you would agree with her. With a thoughtful expression, Kareena could be seen sitting on a couch. She captioned her post saying, ""Waiting for 2021..."" Have a dekko here: Also Read - Kiara Advani’s topless photoshoot, Kareena Kapoor Khan’s look from Laal Singh Chaddha – 11 VIRAL pictures of 2020 that cannot be missedView this post on Instagram A post shared by Kareena Kapoor Khan (@kareenakapoorkhan) on Jul 10, 2020 at 6:07am PDTTold you, you would agree with Bebo. Also Read - Laal Singh Chaddha: Makers of Aamir Khan-Kareena Kapoor starrer call-off shooting in Ladakh due to India-Sino tensionMeanwhile, earlier while promoting Good Newwz, reports of Kareena and Saif Ali Khan planning baby number 2 were doing the rounds which the actress rubbished saying that both she and Saif are happy with their kid, Taimur. ""There is no good news related to a second child in my life. Both Saif and I are happy with our kid Taimur Ali Khan. As of now, we don’t have any plans for a second child. We both are very busy with our work and are trying to balance our professional and personal lives,"" Kareena told Mumbai Mirror.On the work front, Kareena was last seen in Angrezi Medium alongside late Irrfan Khan and Radhika Madan. She will be next seen in Laal Singh Chaddha opposite Aamir Khan. Laal Singh Chaddha is a Bollywood remake of Forrest Gump.What do you have to say about Kareena Kapoor Khan's post? Let us know by tweeting to us @bollywood_life."
Web Desk,"RIP Sushant Singh Rajput: 'My best baby,' writes sister Shweta as she shares a montage video remembering the actor",2020-07-10,"It is really difficult to get over Sushant Singh Rajput's sudden demise. The actor was found hanging by the ceiling, reportedly, by his house staff. The actor was just 34-year-old with a bright future ahead. As per the reports, the actor had been suffering from depression and had lost out on a couple of projects. Further, the suicide of his manager Disha Salian had affected him very much, stated the reports. We cannot fathom what his family would be going through at this time and can only keep them and Sushant's soul in prayers. Also Read - Sushant Singh Rajput suicide: 'Don't close the topic,' says Yuvika Chaudhary as she demands justice for the actorRecently, Sushant Singh Rajput's sister Shweta Singh Kirti shared a montage of videos of the actor. Sushant could be seen in his many moods playing, having fun doing what he did the most. He could be seen maintaining a journal, reading, playing games and more. ""Such a cutie pie ❤️ My best baby in the world...with eyes filled with dreams ❤️,"" she captioned the video. Have a look at the video below and a little warning, keep tissues ready. Also Read - Karan Patel takes a dig at Kangana Ranaut's nepotism tirade, asks, 'Why didn't she cast Sushant in her film?’View this post on Instagram A post shared by Shweta Singh kirti (@shwetasinghkirti) on Jul 10, 2020 at 2:27am PDTFans started pouring in love for Sushant and thanked his sister for sharing such a heart-touching video. Meanwhile, a case had been registered against Bollywood bigwigs like Karan Johar, Alia Bhatt, Salman Khan and some more in Bihar. But earlier in the week the case had been dismissed. The Bihar court on Wednesday dismissed a petition seeking registration of cases against Bollywood bigwigs like Salman Khan, Ekta Kapoor, Sanjay Leela Bhansali and Karan Johar for allegedly abetting actor Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide, citing jurisdictional limitations. Also Read - Trending Tunes: Sushant Singh Rajput's Khairiyat is back on the chartChief Judicial Magistrate of Muzaffarpur Mukesh Kumar dismissed the petition filed by local advocate Sudhir Kumar Ojha, pointing out that the matter lay outside the court's jurisdiction.Sushant's last film was Chhichhore that dealt with the topic of failure and suicide. The actor would be seen for the last time in Dil Bechara alongside Sanjana Sanghi."
Web Desk,"'I would sit on the sets and watch him perform,' reveals Aditi Rao Hydari about her Tughlaq Durbar co-star Vijay Sethupathi [Exclusive]",2020-07-10,"Aditi Rao Hydari is on a roll. The actress has some plum projects lined up in the South with top actors. One of them is Tughlaq Durbar with Vijay Sethupathi. In an EXCLUSIVE chat with BollywoodLife, Aditi Rao Hydari said, ""Actually, Vijay Sethupathi and others have started shooting. I have not joined the team as yet. We have worked together in Mani Ratnam's Chekka Chivantha Vaanam. I remember I would sit on the sets when even I was not required just to watch him perform. He is a phenomenal actor. I am looking forward to Tughlaq Darbar."" The first look of the movie was unveiled two days back on social media. Also Read - Sufiyum Sujatayum movie review: Aditi Rao Hydari and Jayasurya deliver old, stale wine in a dull, dusty bottleWe also spoke to Aditi Rao Hydari about the raging nepotism debate in social media. People are slamming Bollywood for playing favourites with a certain set of actors. ""This is not true. Every industry has its sets of positives and negatives. Opportunities will be more for those who belong to the industry, for outsiders it is less. But at some point, all will be on the same playing field. Everyone has an opinion and right to look at it their way. I do not wish to sit and judge what is right and wrong. I do not want to be resentful or envious, there is no point. We can only work hard, stay positive and live your dream. You can work hard on what is in your hand. I do not wish to judge as everyone's experiences are unique,"" she states. Also Read - Aditi Rao Hydari opens up on doing South films like Sufiyum Sujatayum; says, ‘You cannot buy credibility and respect' [Exclusive]She worked with a newbie Dev Mohan in Sufiyam Sujathayum. ""He made his debut with the film. Normally, I do not step in as I have worked with experienced people. But in this case, I took the director's permission and rehearsed a couple of scenes with him. I believe that an actor needs to build a connect with his director first,"" she said. The lady also has Hey Sinamika with Dulquer Salmaan and Kajal Aggarwal and a movie in Telugu. Also Read - Coronavirus lockdown effect: : 'I was anxious and swimming in a pool of tears,' reveals Aditi Rao Hydari"
Web Desk,Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai: Mohsin Khan and Shivangi Joshi's onscreen son Tanmay Rishi will NOT be replaced in the show; but there's a twist,2020-07-10,"Mohsin Khan and Shivangi Joshi had begun shooting for Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai. Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai is one of the longest-running television shows and enjoys a massive fan-base. Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai is the only Hindi GEC to have completed 3000 episodes. The new episodes of the show will be out from Monday and fans are super excited for it. However, fans also want to whether Tanmay Rishi who plays Mohsin Khan and Shivangi Joshi's onscreen son, Kairav in the show will be a part of the show or not. Tanmay Rishi's age is below 10 and as per the guidelines, kids below the age of 10 are not allowed to shoot. Fans now want to know whether Tanmay will be replaced or not. However, there is a good for the little Kairav fans that he will not be replaced in the show and he will continue to be seen in the show. The makers of Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai have come up with an innovative idea to retain their beloved Kairav aka Tanmay Rishi Shah in the show. Also Read - #BLBestof6: Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke, Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai, Naagin 4 — VOTE for the Best TV Promo in the first half of 2020Tanmay Rishi aka Kairav will shoot with his on-screen parents, Kartik and Naira on video calls. In an interview with Spotboye, Tanmay Rishi aka Kairav said, ""Due to lockdown, I have come to my Nani's place and enjoying the vacations but at the same time I am missing going on the sets and shooting with Shivangi Didi and Mohsin Bhaiya. Now, I will shoot from here on the phone. Today, I also shot with Mohsin Bhaiya on video call. He calls me and I tell him, ""Hi papa, how are you?""."" Also Read - Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai: Jaydeep Ashra to enter the show as Shivangi Joshi's love interest?A source close to Spotboye, said, ""Looking at his popularity, channel has decided that Tanmay will not get replaced and will shoot from his place on the phone. He will have all his scenes where he is connecting with his onscreen parents on video calls until he gets permission to shoot on the set full-fledged."" Also Read - Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai's Shivangi Joshi is excited about her double role in the show"
Web Desk,Karan Patel on pay cuts: I will ask my producer to pay the makeup people and other guys before me,2020-07-10,"Karan Patel would soon be seen entering Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2 as Mr Bajaj. The actor is all ready to play the part and bring new twist and turn in Anurag and Prerna's life. Karan had earlier revealed that he was also approached for Naagin 5 but Ekta Kapoor chose him for Mr Bajaj. The actor is not afraid of comparisons and excited to play the part. Recently, Karan opened up on shooting in times of pandemic, pay cut as a result of lockdown and more in an interview with Pinkvilla. Also Read - Karan Patel takes a dig at Kangana Ranaut's nepotism tirade, asks, 'Why didn't she cast Sushant in her film?’Karan Patel opened up saying that he never had any bad experience with any producer/s. ""Luckily, I have never had any bad experience with any producers, not like I have worked with a lot of producers but Ekta, Balaji I have worked with for the longest time and I can vouch for it that they are possibly the best paymasters in the industry. Don't take my word for it, I have heard similar things with a lot of other people. Apart from them, there are so many good producers like Rajan Shahi Sir, Shashi Sumeet Sir. There are good paymasters but sometimes the payment perhaps takes a little longer time,"" the Yeh Hai Mohabbatein actor said. Also Read - Khatron Ke Khiladi 10, 11 July 2020 written update: Dharmesh becomes the first finalist; Tejasswi Prakash faints during the ticket to finale stuntKaran also spoke on these uncertain times where daily wage earners need financial help. He provided a solution saying, ""But, right now the producers are also going through a little rough time. As an actor, if we can be a little more understanding towards the producer, I think yeh mamla thoda easily solve hoga. What I would do is, I will ask my producer to pay the makeup people and other guys first and can pay me a little later."" Also Read - Khatron Ke Khiladi 10: 'Picture abhi baaki hai,' Karan Patel opens up on the finale of the seasonKaran, you are not just a hero, in reel life but in real life as well."
Web Desk,"Happy birthday, Pearl V Puri: Karishma Tanna, Surbhi Jyoti and others wish the charming actor",2020-07-10,"It's Pearl V Puri's birthday today and the actor turns handsome 31 on this special day. The actor who made his acting debut with Dil Ki Nazar Se Khoosurat and went on to feature in shows like Phir Bhi Na Maane Badtameez Dil, Meri Sasu Maa, Nagarjuna - Ek Yoddha, Naagin 3, Bepanah Pyar to name a few. He won several hearts with his acting chops and his expressive eyes. Pearl has a massive fan following and girls keep drooling over his chiseled physique and charming looks. Also Read - Naagin 3 actor Pearl V Puri REVEALS he helped more than 100 spot boys during lockdown [EXCLUSIVE]Talking about his TV shows, the actor has been linked with almost every costar but he has maintained his stance of being friends and colleagues throughout. On his special day, Pearl's friends and colleagues took to their social handle to wish the actor. Karishma Tanna, Surbhi Jyoti, Anita Hassanandani and others shared pictures, videos on their social handles to make his day special. Have a dekko here: Also Read - Pearl V Puri has THIS to say about Naagin 3 costar Surbhi Jyoti and Naagin 5""Happy happy birthday @pearlvpuri Don’t know how to start, what to write. All I can say in few words is, You are truly a beautiful soul inside out❤️ My Best friend, My father figure, My anchor I am truly blessed to have a friend like you in my life Happy birthday once again,"" Karishma wrote in her post: Also Read - Shweta Tiwari, Pearl V Puri, Naagin 5 — here are the TV newsmakers of the weekSurbhi Jyoti shared a collage made by their fans from their Naagin 3 days and wished the actor:Adaa Khan wished Pearl as well:Arjun Bijlani shared a smiling selfie with Pearl and wrote, ""Happy birthday @pearlvpuri . Wishing u happiness and prosperity... hasta reh.""Anita Hassanandani shared a video in her Instagram stories and wished the actor:Hina wrote, ""This is the only picture I have of you. But that doesn't matter. We shall click many soon. Happy birthday Pearl. Lots of love and hugs,"" have a look at the picture here:Ishita Dutta shared some funny boomerangs and wrote, ""To the most fun loving, down to earth, chilled out, talented friend/insta Photograper/caption expert ? very very very Happy Birthday Wish you all the happiness and have a great day.... please eat an entire cake from my side..... ??? @pearlvpuri""Wish you a very happy birthday, Pearl."
Web Desk,"Amitabh Bachchan’s grandson, Agastya Nanda, to enter Bollywood?",2020-07-10,"It seems another star kid (or should we say star grandkid?) is all set to enter Bollywood. Amitabh Bachchan’s grandson Agastya Nanda wants to be an actor and has been prepping for it, according to a Mumbai Mirror report. He’s 19 and has a huge fan-following on social media. It is believed that he’s already got film offers but will take them up when he feels he’s ready. He was recently spotted attending aunt, Neetu Kapoor’s birthday party. He’s also a fitness freak and works out in their in-house gym. Also Read - Hema Malini DISMISSES illness reports with a sweet videoHis mother Shweta had earlier revealed that she doesn’t want her daughter, Navya to go through something that her brother, Abhishek has gone through in his career. Elaborating on the same, she shared, “Absolutely yes! I’m on Instagram and I follow my brother and know the hate he gets. Whether you like him as an actor or not, it will bother to me as a sister. I hated it, it gave me sleepless nights and I don’t want yet another member of my family to be in this business for selfish reasons. Firstly, I don’t know what Navya’s talent is. Just because she is related to some famous people, doesn’t mean she has what she takes.” Also Read - Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and Aaradhya Bachchan test positive for CoronavirusTalking about Amitabh Bachchan, the actor spoke about Jagdeep’s demise recently. ""Last night we lost another gem. Jagdeep... the actor of exceptional comedic repertoire, passed away. He had crafted a unique individual style of his own... and I had the honour of working with him in several films... the more prominent ones in the eyes of the audience being 'Sholay' and 'Shahenshah',"" Bachchan wrote on his blog. Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan to keep fans updated on his health on his own?""Adopting Jagdeep as his film name was such a gracious factor that exhibited the unity in diversity of the country. There were many others at the time that did similar... the eminent and distinguished... Dilip Kumar, Madhubala, Meena Kumari , Jayant - Amjad Khan's father, a giant of a actor... and many many others..."" he added."
Web Desk,Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke's Shaheer Sheikh gives a THROWBACK treat to fans as he shares his first ever selfie,2020-07-10,"Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke actor Shaheer Sheikh is undoubtedly the most charming actor of the television industry. He has a huge fan following and is always appreciated for his amazing acting skills. He has began his career with the youth-based show Kya Mast Hai Life and soon became the most known face of the television industry. Shaheer Sheikh rose to fame with Navya..Naye Dhadkan Naye Sawaal opposite Saumya Seth. He was loved as Anant Bajpai in the show and his cute chemistry with Saumya is still remembered by all. Shaheer Sheikh established a handsome lover-boy image for himself with the show. Then he switched to a totally different role and played Arjuna in Mahabharat. He is a versatile actor and his performances are proof. Not just this, we have also seen him working in Indonesian films. He is one of the favourite actors in Indonesia and has a huge fan following even there. He has also played Dev in Kuch Rang Pyaar Ke Aise Bhi and currently has won hearts as Abir Rajvansh in Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke. Also Read - Shaheer Sheikh, Shivangi Joshi, Hina Khan — here are the TV Instagrammers of the weekNot just on-screen, Shaheer Sheikh spreads magic on social media as well. He never fails to impress us with his interesting posts on Instagram. During the lockdown, he has been sharing a lot of throwback pictures. He shared some family pictures and also some with his Mahabharat co-stars. He shared a lot of BTS videos from Mahabharat. Now, his recent throwback post is surely the best of all. He shared his first-ever selfie. The picture was clicked during the actor’s younger days as he was travelling in a train. In the picture, we see him in an orange t-shirt and maroon hoodie. He also wore a denim jacket and looks cute. His thick joint eyebrows grab all the attention. Along with the picture, he wrote, ""First selfie ever taken by me .. onboard Jhelum express sleeper class. #madMe #shaheersheikh"" Also Read - #BLBestOf6: Shaheer Sheikh-Rhea Sharma, Mohsin Khan-Shivangi Joshi, Parth Samthaan-Erica Fernandes — VOTE for the Best TV Jodi in the first half of 2020This picture has set the internet on fire and we loved it. Also Read - Hina Khan, Shaheer Sheikh, Manish Raisinghan — here are the TV Instagrammers of the week"
Web Desk,Dil Bechara title song: Sushant Singh Rajput's scintillating performance and AR Rahman's mesmerising voice make it the best track of 2020,2020-07-10,"Who wouldn't love to hear AR Rahman's soulful voice? Dil Bechara's title track will put a smile on your face as Sushant Singh Rajput enters in style. His radiant smile is the highlight of the song. AR Rahman's voice as usual is pleasing to the ear. Amitabh Bhattacharya has done a great job with the lyrics and Sushant Singh Rajput's spectacular moves make this one a hit. His charming personality will win your hearts. Also Read - Sara Ali Khan's twinning moment with mom Amrita Singh and Karan Johar, Ranbir Kapoor celebrating Neetu Kapoor's birthday went viral this weekBL VERDICT:Sushant Singh Rajput nails it with his amazing dance moves and his smile. AR Rahman's voice makes this one the best track of 2020 for sure. Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today: Radhe Shyam first look, Dil Bechara title song, Rohit Shetty's fake encounter"
Web Desk,"Meera Mitun warns Trisha Krishnan on social media; says, 'Don't copy me, Grow up!'",2020-07-10,"Actress and model, Meera Mitun, who has acted in films like Thaanaa Serndha Koottam and 8 Thottakal, is known for posting controversial tweets on his micro-blogging site. The actress has now warned popular actress Trisha Krishnan with her latest tweet and said not to copy her. Her tweet reads, ""Tis s gonna be my last warning to you @trishtrashers. Next time I see, you photoshop ur picture with features of mine including hair, morphing to, look like me, you will be under serious legal allegation . You know what ur doing, Well ur conscience knows. Grow Up! Get a Life."" Meera Mitun had earlier grabbed headlines as a participant of Kamal Haasan's Bigg Boss Tamil and even got associated with fraud cases for conducting beauty pageants. Also Read - Karthik Dial Seytha Yenn: Gautham Menon's short film, featuring Trisha and Simbu, reminds fans of the actress' hit, 96Tis s gonna be my last warning to you @trishtrashers. Next time I see, you photoshop ur picture with features of mine including hair, morphing to, look like me, you will be under serious legal allegation . You know what ur doing, Well ur conscience knows. Grow Up! Get a Life. — Meera Mitun (@meera_mitun) July 9, 2020Trisha Krishnan will next be seen in Mani Ratnam's mega-budget multi-starrer Ponniyin Selvan, which also stars Chiyaan Vikram, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Aditi Rao Hydari, Karthi, Jayam Ravi and others. The reports suggest that Karthi plays Vallavaraiyan Vandiyadevan and Ravi portrays the character of Arulmozhi Varman in this venture. Talking about the film, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan earlier told us, ""I’ve just read the very detailed script and I’m curious too because when you read it, it’s a movie in your head. Now, I want to discover what’s the movie in his head. At this point, we are discussing it. My joining the team will be in the end of December or January. So, I’m looking forward to it."" Also Read - Is Mohanlal and Trisha starrer RAM shelved? Director Jeethu Joseph clarifiesReportedly, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan will portray Nandini—wife of Chola Kingdom's Periya Pazhuvettaraiyar and Nandini's mother—Mandakini Devi's part, who was a mute queen. Though the primary focus will be on Nandini's life. The film is based on Kalki Krishnamurthy's historical novel and will narrate the story of Arulmozhivarman, who later became the great Raja Raja Chola I. Interestingly, Mani has worked with Vikram, Karthi and Aishwarya in films like Raavan, Guru and Kaatru Veliyidai. So, are you excited for this venture? Tweet and let us know @bollywood_life Also Read - Week That Was South: Rana Daggubati gets engaged to Miheeka Bajaj, Thala Ajith's Valimai pushed to 2021"
Web Desk,"Radhe Shyam: '1000crpakka,' Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's film already gets box-office prediction from fans",2020-07-10,"Prabhas fans have taken over social media and how. The first look and title of his 20th film, Radhe Shyam is out. The movie is a period romance shot in Europe. The movie has been directed by Krish Jagarlamudi. Prabhas is romancing Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo actress Pooja Hedge in the still. We can see him dressed in a white suit while Pooja Hegde is in a red gown. The stunning vistas of Europe form a beautiful backdrop. The first look spells pure romance. In the film, Prabhas plays the role of a fortune-teller. It has been shot in some beautiful castles of Europe. Also Read - Radhe Shyam: Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's poster gets a coronavirus TWIST from Assam Police — view picFans of the leading pair are bowled over by the first look. And why not? Prabhas is looking so handsome and dapper while Pooja Hegde is like a dream. In fact, they are already predicting 1000 crores for the film at the box office. Around three hashtags are trending right now on Twitter. While Prabhas has been more of an action hero throughout his romantic side is quite appealing as we have seen in the Baahubali movies. Also Read - Week That Was South: Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's Radhe Shyam first look released, Allu Arjun shares an adorable pic of daughter Arha#Radheshyam King OF ""Mass""? King OF ""Smile""? King OF ""Style""? King OF ""BB"" ? King OF ""Acting""? King OF ""Social Media""? This Name Is ""REBEL STAR PRABHAS"" Is Enough?? #Prabhas#Prabhas20FirstLook pic.twitter.com/AaeHhoe8WN — Prabhas? (@_varma07) July 10, 2020Prabhas fans have taken over the trends and how. People are going over how good they are looking together. Pooja Hegde also has a huge fanbase in the South after successes like Maharshi, Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo and Aravinda Sametha Veera Raghava. We cannot wait for the film now! Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today: Radhe Shyam first look, Dil Bechara title song, Rohit Shetty's fake encounter"
Web Desk,"Sushant Singh Rajput demise: 'Probably it was something more than a failure that was affecting him,' says Dabangg 3 actor Kichcha Sudeepa",2020-07-10,"The tragic demise of Sushant Singh Rajput has sent shockwaves across the nation. While we saw many celebs mourning the death of the late Chhichhore actor, Mumbai police is currently investigating his case and has recorded statements of many Bollywood celebs. Now popular Kannada star, Kichcha Sudeepa, who is seen Bollywood films like Dabangg 3, Rakhta Charitra and others, spoke about SSR's demise and told Bollywood Hungama, “Probably it was something more than a failure that was affecting him.” Kichcha also revealed that he admired SSR a lot. Also Read - Trending Tunes: Sushant Singh Rajput's Khairiyat is back on the chartRecently, Raveena Tandon also spoke about SSR's demise and said, “Stop sensationalising it now. You can’t blame anyone, not the film industry. This is just becoming a witch-hunt, a lynch mob, which is wrong. People have to think rationally. It’s doing a great disservice to the poor boy who’s gone.” She further added, “There are politics, I agree. And there are good people and there are bad people. This is what I had written in my tweet also. And there are bad people who do plan your failure; I’ve been through it. They are the ones who would want to see you down and removed from films. It’s literally like classroom politics. They play dirty games. But people like this are there in every industry. We’re in a high profile glamorous job and the competition is cut-throat, so it gets highlighted.” Also Read - RIP Sushant Singh Rajput: Late actor's hometown Purnea names a road after himTalking about Karan Johar receiving backlash, the Mohra actress said, “Karan Johar intentionally made a bad film for Sushant, so he could ruin the actor’s career. Why would a producer pay an actor crores of rupees, sign him in his movie and then risk the rest of the crores in making a shitty film? Why would anyone invest so much money, time and mechanism to intentionally sabotage his own film? How absurd are these allegations!” Also Read - Ankita Lokhande gets moving messages from fans after Sushant Singh Rajput's death, 'A part of his heart is alive in you'"
Web Desk,"Glee actress Naya Rivera is presumed dead due to drowning, after she disappeared at a lake in California",2020-07-10,"This is really sad news. Glee actress Naya Rivera is presumed dead due to drowning at a lake in Southern California, according to the Ventura County Sheriff's Office. ""We're presuming that an accident happened and we're presuming she drowned in the lake,"" Deputy Chris Dyer said at a press conference. Surveillance video taken at about 1 pm on Wednesday shows Rivera and the boy leaving on the boat at Lake Piru. This was not the first time Naya had gone boating. About three hours later, the child was spotted in the boat by himself. He was reportedly unharmed and he told the police investigators that he and his mother were swimming, but she never returned to the boat. Also Read - Glee star Naya Rivera MISSING after a swimming accident in CaliforniaLocal authorities were searching for Rivera after her four-year-old son was found floating in a rented boat on Lake Piru. Officials began searching for Rivera using helicopters, drones and dive teams. According to authorities, in the area where the boat was found, the water was about 30 feet (9 meters) deep, authorities said. Also Read - Glee star Naya Rivera makes directorial debut“In the lake, the visibility is terrible. If the body is entangled on something beneath the water, it may never come back up,” Sheriff’s Sgt. Kevin Donoghue said.It is believed that Murky waters heavy with vegetation made it difficult for divers to see more than about a foot ahead of them.However, now search and rescue efforts for the actress have now shifted to a recovery operation, revealed Dyer.In her last tweet, she had posted a picture with her son.just the two of us pic.twitter.com/wCunAlGJ1B — Naya Rivera (@NayaRivera) July 7, 2020Rivera is best known for her role as Santana Lopez in Glee. She was also seen in Devious Maids and Step Up: High Water. Her son is from her marriage to actor Ryan Dorsey. The couple finalized their divorce in June 2018 after nearly four years of marriage."
Web Desk,"Master: Thalapathy Vijay's film will release ONLY in theatres, confirms producer Xavier Britto",2020-07-10,"The pandemic has meant that films are getting pushed. Fans of Thalapathy Vijay were eagerly waiting for Master in the cinema halls this April. However, the film has been postponed. Now, producer Xavier Britto has confirmed that Master won't release on an any OTT platform at all. He said that it was a big budget movie and releasing it on OTT was not a financially sound decision. Xavier Britto told Vikatan, ""Vijay is very clear about it. He wants Master to release only when theaters reopen. It could be this Diwali or next Pongal."" Of late, we saw few small and medium budget movies releasing on OTT like Karthik Subbaraj's Penguin. Also Read - Week That Was South: Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's Radhe Shyam first look released, Allu Arjun shares an adorable pic of daughter ArhaThalapathy Vijay's Master was supposed to come on screens in April but got delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It seems makers of all big-budget films are willing to wait and release when the halls reopen for the public. Trade experts have said that biggies can recover only upto 30 per cent of their investment through OTT platforms. Exhibitors, distributors and hall owners are banking on big stars to bring back the crowds to the movies when the situation finally settles down. In Bollywood, Rohit Shetty's Sooryavanshi might also release in the later part of the year. In May, actress Malavika Mohanan told Indian Express, ""I don’t know. I don’t think I am in a place to say anything because it is the producer’s call. Right now, we all are waiting for the pandemic to ease out a bit before deciding on the movie’s release."" Also Read - 'Thalapathy Vijay and Chiyaan Vikram can pull off any look with ease,' says Bigil and Cobra costume designer Komal ShahaniMaster is being directed by Lokesh Kanagaraj who has made successful films like Managaram and Kaithi. The highlight of the film is the presence of Vijay Sethupathi as the main villain. First time the two Vijay's are coming together. The film also has Malavika Mohanan, Arjun Das, Andrea Jeremiah and Shanthanu Bhagyaraj. Also Read - 'Thalapathy Vijay talks less but his works speaks,' says ace choreographer Brindha Master"
Web Desk,"Breathe: Into The Shadows: 'Aishwarya Rai had a very emotional reaction to it,' reveals Abhishek Bachchan",2020-07-10,"Abhishek Bachchan and Nithya Menen's debut web-series, Breathe: Into The Shadows premiered today and we saw many social media users praising the plot and performances of the lead stars. And just like fans, even Abhishek Bachchan's wifey Aishwarya Rai Bachchan was mighty impressed with his act as he told in a recent interaction, ""Everyone in the family liked it. Aishwarya had a very emotional reaction to it, she saw it a couple of weeks ago. My father and the rest of the family have really liked it and are excited about it. I think I that when a member of your family is coming up with some work emotions will override their professional ability to judge it professionally, but everyone is excited and looking forward to seeing it."" Also Read - What! Abhishek Bachchan finally REVEALS how he felt working with Hrithik Roshan and future wife Aishwarya Rai in Dhoom 2View this post on Instagram ✨??SHINE ON BABY??✨ ✨BREATHE...✨ A post shared by AishwaryaRaiBachchan (@aishwaryaraibachchan_arb) on Jul 9, 2020 at 8:47am PDTThe thriller web-series, which also stars Amit Sadh and Saiyami Kher in pivotal roles, Breathe 2 is produced by Abundantia Entertainment and created and directed by Mayank Sharma. The show has been written by Bhavani Iyer, Vikram Tuli, Arshad Syed and Mayank Sharma. The psychological thriller is the follow-up to the 2018 Breathe, which starred R Madhavan in a lead role. Also Read - Salman Khan tweets about Sushant Singh Rajput, gets criticised for ‘ruining’ careers of Vivek Oberoi, Arijit Singh and Aishwarya Rai BachchanTalking about reviews, our critic Russel D'Silva gave it 2.5 stars and wrote, ""Breathe: Into the Shadows neither breathes 'freshness' into the surplus of thriller web series out there nor differentiates itself much from Breathe 1. There's pretty much a been-there-seen-that vibe right through the show. That being said, Nithya Menen, Amit Sadh, Abhishek Bachchan, Saiyami Kher (in that order) and some genuinely suspenseful moments hold it together to make for a decently engaging watch, if you can spare the time for twelve episodes."" So, have you watched all the episodes? Tweet and let us know @bollywood_life. Also Read - From Kajol to Sushmita Sen, 6 actresses who had the best on-screen chemistry with Shah Rukh Khan"
Web Desk,Pooja Hegde spell romance as makers reveal FIRST LOOK and TITLE,2020-07-10,"Finally, it is time! The makers of Prabhas' 20th film have revealed the title and first look. Krish Jagarlamudi's film is Radhe Shyam and boy, how handsome is Prabhas looking. We can see the hunk in a white suit while Pooja Hegde is resplendent in a red gown. The stunning backdrop adds to the vibe. With colours like red, yellow and gold in the backdrop, it is so royal. The announcement of the first look and title comes on the day when Prabhas fans are celebrating five years of Baahubali. Two days back, they had revealed that the details would be out today at ten am. The handsome hunk of the Telugu film industry, Prabhas did heavy-duty back-to-back action films like the Baahubali series and Saaho. It had taken a toll on his body as he had to maintain a beefy look. This film is a period romance. It has been shot in some beautiful European nations. In fact, the shoot got completed in Georgia days before India went into a lockdown. Prabhas flew back home with his team. Some members of the crew arrived a few days later. Also Read - Radhe Shyam: Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's poster gets a coronavirus TWIST from Assam Police — view picThis is Prabhas' first film with Pooja Hegde. It seems he is a fortune-teller in this period romance. It has comedy as well. The movie is being produced by UV Creations, who financed Saaho. Radhakrishna Jagarlamudi is the filmmaker. His last film, the biopic on NT Rama Rao failed to shine with the critics and audiences. Like Shraddha Kapoor, Pooja Hegde like Shraddha Kapoor was all praise for Prabhas during the making. She said, ""Prabhas is always chilled out, he is so considerate. He not only loves to eat but also loves to feed. His cook brings us lip-smacking meals on the set."" Also Read - Week That Was South: Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's Radhe Shyam first look released, Allu Arjun shares an adorable pic of daughter ArhaPooja Hegde is riding the wave of success in the Telugu film industry. She has done films like Maharishi, Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo and Aravindha Sametha that broke box office records in the recent past. Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today: Radhe Shyam first look, Dil Bechara title song, Rohit Shetty's fake encounter"
Web Desk,"11 songs that killed the mood in first half of 2020 so bad, you'd wish they were never made",2020-07-10,"Today, we will be talking about music. What do you expect from music? A pure soothing number, a pure EDM number, a pure dance number or a truly sad song. But it looks like Bollywood has forgotten what music means. Either that or they love khichdi. No, we are not talking about food, but their taste in music. Yes, this is 2020. But some songs are as bad as 2020 itself. Let's have a look... Also Read - Trending Tunes: Jubin Nautiyal's Meri Aashiqui tops the chartsGenda PhoolWe have to begin with this. Genda Phool created quite a stir and I wonder why? Badshah, what happened to you? And WTF are the lyrics. We don't even know what to say or how to say because honestly, change the track bro. Also Read - Trending Tunes: Late Sushant Singh Rajput’s Khairiyat from Chhichhore enters the listMere Angne MeinTere bina, without youBhankasDus Bahane 2.0Aashiqui Mein Teri 2.0Haan Main GalatYeh Dooriyan 2.0Masakali 2.0Do You Love MeGarmiFor the last few years, Bollywood has aced its game of ruining old classics for us. Mere Angne Mein featuring Jacqueline Fernandez and Asim Riaz was such a bad song that we didn't even watch it.Bhai, baksh do. Hume, humare kaanon ko aur humare musicians ko. We cannot comprehend what Salman Khan did with this song, and to be blunt we don't want to comprehend.Tiger Shroff and Shraddha Kapoor are just too over-zealous in this song which makes us feel like throwing them out of the song. Tiger, Shraddha what were you guys thinking?I remember grooving to this hit number (back then) with my cousins. It was epic, I had some very good memories. I was pretty excited because the original composers were remaking it. But even they couldn't out-do themselves. Chamatkaar baar baar nahi hotel!Renu Mondal's Ek Pyaar Ka Nagma hai was a hit maybe because she didn't have that celebrity status. Himesh, sorry to say, you ruined your own song.Lo kar lo baat, iski to pehli line ne sab samjha diya. So, we don't have to explain it. Twist was, is and will remain an iconic number from the original Love Aaj Kal Mohit Chauhan sang this 2.0 version of Yeh Dooriyan. I hadn't watched it because firstly, I had not liked the trailer itself. Secondly, I did not know this song existed. So, I had to watch this song. The credits rolled and I understood there was no song. Mohit was saying NOT singing the lyrics.I remember this controversy so well. I had a good laugh, a really good laugh. Main chali, chali, chali, chali...No, we don't. We felt really sad that Disha Patani was reduced to next to nothing in the song. Disha, you could do better.Firstly, it released in the wrong season. Highly objective, wasted a couple of minutes of my life.NOTE: I do not wish to hurt anyone's sentiments. These are my (and maybe of many more like me) opinions but sadly, they won't change. Secondly, I feel objectification, glamourisation of women in the songs should be banned as well.On that note, I truly wish (not hope) we have better songs in future."
Web Desk,Varun Dhawan-Sara Ali Khan's Coolie No 1 to release in theatres on THIS date?,2020-07-10,"Due to COVID-19, we saw many films getting affected and as a result, they had to delay the release dates due to the lockdown phase across the country. And among them was Varun Dhawan and Sara Ali Khan starrer Coolie No 1, which was scheduled to release on May 1 but was postponed at the box office due to the global crisis of coronavirus. The latest reports suggest that the makers are planning to release the film on New Year 2021. Though the official announcement of this news is yet to made. Also Read - #6YearsOfHSKD: Sidharth Shukla fans remind makers that the Balika Vadhu star was also a part of the film as they make him trend on topAs per the sources, there will be plenty of twists in the rebooted version as Varun Dhawan is playing Mithun Chakraborty's fan in the comic caper. “Varun is a great mimic himself and his favourites are Mithun da, Akshay (Kumar) and Salman (Khan). He has done take-offs on them on public platforms. Of course, doing it on the big screen required multiple workshops and reading sessions,” informed the source. Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – RIP Jagdeep, Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?The makers have recreated one of the iconic tracks from Coolie No 1 for the remake, which is Mein Toh Raste Se Ja Raha Tha. It is composed by Tanishk Bagchi. Talking about the track, director David Dhawan said, “It is an important song for our film, and it has heart. But times have changed so I am going to picturise it very differently with Varun and Sara."" Recalling about the original track, David said. “We found a place in Bangalore with lot of Bhel Puri stalls and had the lead pair (Govinda and Karisma) strolling through it, exploring ‘Mumbai’. I thought it was the best way to capture the essence of the Maximum City back then."" Well, this song will definitely make noise among the college kids. Also Read - Varun Dhawan extends support to 200 Bollywood dancers, transfers money directly to their bank accountsSo, what are your thoughts on Coolie No 1? Tweet and let us know @bollywood_life."
Web Desk,Sangeeta Bijlani's cake-cutting with salon staff in PPE suits is going VIRAL — watch video,2020-07-10,"One of the most beautiful Bollywood heroines of the 90's, Sangeeta Bijlani turned 60 yesterday. The lockdown has meant that all birthdays and functions are low-key affairs. Sangeeta Bijlani went to the Kromakay Salon in Juhu for a pampering session. The salon is a favourite with many stars. They also did a small cake-cutting ceremony for their regular patron. A video has gone viral where we can see the stunning actress cutting her cake as the salon staff and paparazzi wish her. The staff is dressed in PPE suits. As we know, salons have reopened but the staff members have to take extra precautions. Also, only hair-cutting and some other grooming procedures are being allowed. Also Read - It’s Awkward! Arbaaz Khan picking his nose, Neha Kakkar adjusting her hair after visit the salon - these pictures are certain to tickle your funny boneSangeeta Bijlani was wearing a maxi dress in hues of red, blue and white. She had teamed it with sneakers and a cross-body bag. We guess that she came for a hair pampering session as her tresses looked great. Sangeeta Bijlani's voluminous mane is amongst the best in B-Town ladies. She does yoga regularly and has maintained herself really well. Also Read - Throwback Thursday: When birthday girl Sangeeta Bijlani won several hearts with her sensuous dance in Gali Gali Mein Phirta HaiThe lady a former Miss India was discovered by Rajiv Rai at a fashion show. He gave her a break in Bollywood. We know her from films like Tridev and Jurm. Sangeeta Bijlani has been getting offers to work in TV and Bollywood but the actress has declined them as she did not find them interesting enough. But we fans to see her back on screens soon. The lady also grabbed headlines for her relationships with Salman Khan and Mohammad Azharuddin. She was married to the former India captain for a few years before ending it in divorce. Also Read - PICS: Salman Khan's bash for Sangeeta Bijlani was a cosy affair"
Web Desk,"#BLBestOf6: Shaheer Sheikh-Rhea Sharma, Mohsin Khan-Shivangi Joshi, Parth Samthaan-Erica Fernandes — VOTE for the Best TV Jodi in the first half of 2020",2020-07-10,"#BLBestOf6 is back again. Six months of 2020 have passed and it’s time to look back at these past days. A lot of hurdles have come our way and we are somehow dealing with them. It has been a truly difficult phase of all our lives. Now, we need to forget those and look at some amazing performances given by our favourite television stars. It is time for polls and we ask you to select the best from the first half of the year. Today, let us look at our favourite television jodis whose on-screen chemistry has impressed us the most. And you guys know what you need to do. Yes, vote for the Best TV Jodi in the first half of 2020. Also Read - #BLBestof6: Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke, Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai, Naagin 4 — VOTE for the Best TV Promo in the first half of 2020Shaheer Sheikh and Rhea Sharma – Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar KeView this post on Instagram #yehrishteyhainpyaarke @rhea_shrm PC @ritvik_arora A post shared by Shaheer Sheikh (@shaheernsheikh) on Feb 21, 2020 at 10:48pm PSTShaheer Sheikhand Rhea Sharma as Abir and Mishti have become the most favourite since the first episode of Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke aired. They have been paired together for the first time and they look so perfect on-screen. Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke is the spin-off show of Mohsin Khan and Shivangi Joshi's Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai. However, it won't be wrong to say that Abir and Mishti have been loved as much as Kartik and Naira. Shaheer and Rhea's crackling chemistry makes us fall in love with #MishBir. Also Read - Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai: Mohsin Khan and Shivangi Joshi's onscreen son Tanmay Rishi will NOT be replaced in the show; but there's a twistMohsin Khan and Shivangi Joshi – Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata HaiView this post on Instagram A post shared by शिवांगी जोशी (@shivangijoshi18) on Mar 27, 2019 at 7:38am PDTYeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai's Mohsin Khan and Shivangi Joshi aka Kartik and Naira have a huge fan following. They have been one of the most loved on-screen jodis and we have been watching them together for four years. Kartik and Naira aka Kaira have won our hearts with their sizzling chemistry. One cannot imagine Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai without Mohsin Khan and Shivangi Joshi aka Kartik and Naira. Also Read - Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai: Jaydeep Ashra to enter the show as Shivangi Joshi's love interest?Parth Samthaan and Erica Fernandes – Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2Ekta Kapoor brought back her iconic show, Kasautii Zindagii Kay. Parth Samthaan and Erica Fernandes became the new face of Anurag and Prerna. Just like Cezanne Khan and Shweta Tiwari, Parth Samthaan and Erica Fernandes also gave an amazing performance. They gave a new touch to Anurag and Prerna's love story.Shabir Ahluwalia and Sriti Jha – Kumkum BhagyaView this post on Instagram A post shared by Shabir Ahluwalia (@shabirahluwalia) on Apr 15, 2019 at 12:48am PDTWho doesn't love watching Kumkum Bhagya's Abhi and Pragya? Shabir Ahluwalia and Sriti Jha have nailed it as Abhishek Mehra and Pragya Arora. A beautiful love story of a famous singer and a simple girl has won hearts. Shabir and Sriti have a huge fan following.Dheeraj Dhoopar and Shraddha Arya – Kundali BhagyaView this post on Instagram A post shared by Shraddha Arya (@sarya12) on Dec 20, 2019 at 12:51am PSTKumkum Bhagya's spin-off show, Kundali Bhagya is one of the most watched-off and has been amongst the top five on the TRP charts. The reason is the chemistry between Dheeraj Dhoopar and Shraddha Arya. Karan and Preeta's on-screen and off-screen chemistry is loved by fans. They surely look cute together as Karan and Preeta.Vijayendra Kumeria and Nia Sharma – Naagin 4View this post on Instagram A post shared by Nia Sharma (@niasharma90) on Feb 12, 2020 at 10:38pm PSTNaagin 4's Nia Sharma and Vijayendra Kumeria's fresh pairing has been the highlight of the show. The show did not perform well but Nia Sharma and Vijayendra Kumeria aka Brinda and Dev have a huge fan following. They both have given brilliant performances and hence #BrinDev have become quite famous.So, vote for the Best TV Jodi here."
Web Desk,"Trending Entertainment News Today – RIP Jagdeep, Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?",2020-07-09,"It’s almost the end of the week, and we are here with our trending entertainment news. Hina Khan, Sidharth Shukla, Abhinav Kohli, Jagdeep, Varun Dhawan, Tom Hanks, Irrfan Khan and others are a part of our top entertainment news today. So read on to know more about today’s newsmakers. Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan’s grandson, Agastya Nanda, to enter Bollywood?Here are the entertainment newsmakers:RIP JagdeepThe year 2020 is turning out to be a terrible one for all movie buffs. After the demises of Irrfan Khan, Rishi Kapoor, Sushant Singh Rajput, it is veteran comedian Jagdeep who has passed away. The man from Madhya Pradesh started off as a child artiste in the industry before he went on to make a name for himself in Bollywood. Fans will remember him best as Soorma Bhopali from the film, Sholay. The character is sealed in the history books of Bollywood. Actors are remembering him as someone who never failed to make them laugh. Ajay Devgan wrote on Twitter, ""Heard the sad news of Jagdeep Saab’s demise. Always enjoyed watching him on screen. He brought so much joy to the audience. My deepest condolences to Jaaved and all members of the family. Prayers for Jagdeep Saab’s soul."" Also Read - RIP Jagdeep: 'My father entertained you all for 70 long years, please do pray for him,' says Jaaved Jaafrey on father's demiseRead the full story here:RIP Jagdeep: From Sholay's Soorma Bhopali to Purana Mandir's Macchar Singh, the man who never failed to make us laugh Also Read - 'A humble human... loved by millions,' Amitabh Bachchan pays a tribute to late veteran actor JagdeepWhen Tom Hanks Irrfan KhanTom Hanks turns 64 today. He is one of the most respected actors. He’s not just a great actor but a nice human being. Many people have spoken about his kindness. At a past event, the actor revealed that he was impressed by his Inferno co-star, Irrfan Khan. He said, “Here’s what I hate about Irrfan Khan. I always think I’m the coolest guy in the room, and everybody’s hanging on to every word I say and everybody’s a little intimidated to be in my presence. And then Irrfan Khan walks into the room. And he’s the coolest guy in the room.”Read the full story here: When Tom Hanks ‘hated’ his Inferno co-star Irrfan Khan and wanted to copy himVarun helps 200 Bollywood dancersDue to the lockdown effect of coronavirus, we saw Bollywood and people associated got badly affected. Bollywood background dancers were among them as they appealed to stars and producers for help through a collective video. And actor Varun Dhawan, who has essayed the role of a dancer in films like Street Dancer 3D and ABCD 2 has extended his support to 200 dancers by transferring money directly in their bank accounts.Read the full story here: Varun Dhawan extends support to 200 Bollywood dancers, transfers money directly to their bank accountsAbhinav Kohli shares a picture of son ReyaanshShweta Tiwari and Abhinav Kohli have been living separately for some time now. This has happened after she accused him of domestic violence. Abhinav Kohli has slammed all her allegations of late. He has taken to social media to write how much he is missing his two-year-old son, Reyaansh. He posted a picture of Reyaansh and wrote about how Shweta Tiwari is not allowing him to meet their son. He wrote on Instagram, ""I miss you. It’s been 1 month and 23 days since your mummy seperated us. I love you beyond words and surely by God’s grace I will hug you tight very soon.""Read the full story here: Abhinav Kohli shares a picture of son Reyaansh, says, 'It’s been 1 month and 23 days since your mummy separated us'Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?Khatron Ke Khiladi has been one of the biggest shows for Colors TV. The TRPs of the show are consistently good. The fresh episodes of Khatron Ke Khiladi 10 started airing from June 27. This year the line-up was very impressive. We had top stars like Karishma Tanna, Karan Patel, Shivin Narang, Adaa Khan are others on the show. It seems the finale will be shot on July 20 in Mumbai's Film City. The whole season was shot in Bulgaria before the pandemic hit the world and sent everything in disarray. It seems the channel has plans to have a special edition of Khatron Ke Khiladi. This was being planned for a long-time by Colors. They were supposed to shoot it in Thailand.Read the full story here: Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up for THIS show?"
Web Desk,When Robert Downey Jr. called Aamir Khan the 'Tom Hanks of India',2020-07-09,"Iron Man aka Robert Downey Jr. enjoys a massive fan-following in India. Not just Robert but the whole cast of the Avengers series has a separate fanbase in India. But did you know, Robert is a fan of our own perfectionist Aamir Khan? Yes, you read that right. Ages ago when the first installment of Iron Man had released, the actor had not only spoken about the Dangal actor but also heaped praises for him. He called him, ""Tom Hanks of India."" Irony is Aamir Khan doing Tom Hanks' Forrest Gump. Also Read - Avengers Endgame: 14,000 VFX artists worked on the movie's epic climax for THIS amount of timeTalking about the interview, Robert Downey Jr had spoken to Bombay Times and revealed, ""I happened to see Lagaan and believe Aamir Khan was extraordinary,"" while adding that he was waiting for the right opportunity to visit India. He had also expressed interest in Indian culture. ""India is a land waiting to happen for me and I would love to visit it as soon as I get a chance. All that comes to mind when I hear of this country is diversity, vibrancy and Bollywood boogie,"" the actor had gushed. Also Read - When Robert Downey Jr aka Iron Man walked out from an interview in anger during the promotions of Avengers: Age of Ultron — watch videoMeanwhile, Robert was last seen in SpiderMan: Homecoming in which there was an Indian setting however, the shot was not filmed in India. He couldn't come to India to promote Avengers: Endgame but sent warm wishes and thanked all the fans from the country for all their love. ""Wow... I can’t believe it... This is incredible. I am humbled. I am going to bow in front of you... This is deeply appreciative.” He added, “You guys are just amazing fans. I can’t wait. I cannot believe I haven’t been to India. I’m coming there so damn soon,"" he had said. Also Read - Say What! Hulk to be the biggest villain in the next Avengers movie?Coming back to Aamir Khan's Forrest Gump, it is titled Laal Singh Chaddha and also features Kareena Kapoor Khan."
Web Desk,Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai: Jaydeep Ashra to enter the show as Shivangi Joshi's love interest?,2020-07-09,"Mohsin Khan and Shivangi Joshi starrer Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai is one of the longest-running television shows and enjoys a massive fan-base. Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai is the only Hindi GEC to have completed 3000 episodes. The show has a huge fan following and it has been running since 2009. Even after so many years one never gets bored with the show and currently, fans are in love with Kartik and Naira's love story. Due to the lockdown imposed, we were unable to see the new episodes of the show and hence fans were missing watching their favourite Kartik and Naira. Now, in the unlock 1.0 phase, shoots of many shows have begun and even Mohsin Khan and Shivangi Joshi began shooting for Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai. The new promo of the show had left the fans excited about Shivangi Joshi's double role as Naira and Tina. Also Read - Actress Divvya Chouksey passes away, ‘I am on my death bed,’ read her last Instagram messageKartik and Naira will play a small game to save their family and get the contract from a businesswoman (Alka Kaushal). Mohsin Khan and Shivangi Joshi aka Kartik and Naira are the most favourite couple on television. No one can imagine either of the two being paired with someone else on Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai. But, now there will be another new entry in the show who will be paired opposite Shivangi Joshi. Jaydeep Ashra who has been part of the Darpana Academy of Performing Arts, Ahmedabad will soon enter the show. He will play the role of Alka Kaushik’s son who will fall in love with Tina (Shivangi Joshi). If these reports are true, it surely will be great fun to watch the new episodes. Also Read - #BLBestof6: Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke, Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai, Naagin 4 — VOTE for the Best TV Promo in the first half of 2020We are excited to watch this new journey of Kartik and Naira, aren't you? Also Read - Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai: Mohsin Khan and Shivangi Joshi's onscreen son Tanmay Rishi will NOT be replaced in the show; but there's a twist"
Web Desk,Sushant Singh Rajput suicide: Has Shekhar Kapur recorded his statement via email?,2020-07-09,"Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide is under probe of the Mumbai Police. The actor's suicide came as a huge shock to the whole country on that unfortunate afternoon of 14th June 2020. Mumbai Police is investigating the actor's death by questioning his family, house staff, managers, his friends and colleagues from the industry. Recently, Sanjay Leela Bhansali was asked to visit the Bandra police station for questioning. He was interrogated for about three hours during which he revealed that he wanted to cast the late actor in four of his films. Also Read - Sushant Singh Rajput suicide: 'Don't close the topic,' says Yuvika Chaudhary as she demands justice for the actorIt was reported that after Sanjay Leela Bhansali, filmmaker Shekhar Kapur would be asked to visit the police station for interrogation. However, that's not the case. As per the latest reports, Kapur who is not in Mumbai has sent his statement via email. Yes, you read that right. ETimes reported that the filmmaker who was working with the late actor in Paani has sent his statement on email. The report further states that he may be asked to record his statement again once he is Mumbai. Also Read - Karan Patel takes a dig at Kangana Ranaut's nepotism tirade, asks, 'Why didn't she cast Sushant in her film?’Meanwhile, Shekhar had expressed his wish to be around him during the last six months prior to his suicide. He had tweeted out a cryptic post that triggered his fans more than ever. ""I knew the pain you were going through. I knew the story of the people that let you down so bad that you would weep on my shoulder. I wish I was around the last 6 months. I wish you had reached out to me. What happened to you was their Karma. Not yours. #SushantSinghRajput,"" Shekhar had tweeted out after the actor's demise. Also Read - Trending Tunes: Sushant Singh Rajput's Khairiyat is back on the chartSushant's demise has triggered a debate on nepotism, lobbying, bullying, camp-ism in the industry. Karan Johar, Salman Khan, Alia Bhatt and several other star kids have been tha target of people of late."
Web Desk,Was Ankita Bhargava apprehensive of Karan Patel's salt-n-pepper look in Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2? The actress answers,2020-07-09,"Karan Patel has replaced Karan Singh Grover as Mr. Bajaj in Parth Samthaan and Erica Fernandes starrer Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2. Karan Patel's new salt and pepper has been the talk of the town. The pictures of his new looks have set the internet on fire and fans are happy to see him as Mr. Bajaj. Ankita Bhargava, his wife is all praise for his new look. In a chat with Spotboye, she spoke about Karan looks as Mr. Bajaj. She said, ""He is looking smashing. He obviously looks very nice when he is well-suited and booted. He himself is a suit fan. So, he is more than happy to get into that avatar. He is looking the part very well- it's neat and the cuts are very clean so I am liking him in Mr.Bajaj's look."" Also Read - Karan Patel takes a dig at Kangana Ranaut's nepotism tirade, asks, 'Why didn't she cast Sushant in her film?’Ankita also spoke about being apprehensive of Karan Patel's salt-n-pepper look in Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2. She said, ""We had apprehensions about him greying his hair because that's not something an actor easily wants to do. But the offer was of Mr.Bajaj, who is such an iconic character, so the opportunity was great. About greying his hair, we didn't want to put on the whitner to look old. Both of us felt that it can be done stylishly. I remember Karan and I were researching online on various looks and he found some amazing references. It was a mix of bronze, platinum and grey- it looked mature and yet stylish. And that's exactly the hair colour he got done the next day. It looks amazing I feel."" Also Read - Khatron Ke Khiladi 10, 11 July 2020 written update: Dharmesh becomes the first finalist; Tejasswi Prakash faints during the ticket to finale stuntShe revealed about her first reaction when Karan informed her of being approached for Mr. Bajaj's role. She said, ""The call came to him when I was around. Even Naagin 5 was offered to him. But things materialised for Kasautii Zindagii Kay. Karan and I have complete faith in Ekta Kapoor's vision. The way she looks at characters and storylines is amazing. So, we decided to go ahead with her vision. She was seeing Mr.Bajaj in Karan."" Karan Patel was a part of the old show, Kasautii Zindagii Kay. Ankita revealed even she was a part of the original show. She said, ""I have followed the original Kasautii Zindagii Kay. In fact, I was also a part of it. It was a cameo. There was a love triangle shown between Shabbir Ahluwalia and Jennifer Winget at that time. So, obviously I didn't cross paths with Prerna (Shweta Tiwari) Anurag (Cezanne Khan) and Mr.Bajaj (Ronit Roy). Also, my mother (Kiran Bhargava) has worked in Kasautii too."" Also Read - Khatron Ke Khiladi 10: 'Picture abhi baaki hai,' Karan Patel opens up on the finale of the season"
Web Desk,"RIP Jagdeep: 'My father entertained you all for 70 long years, please do pray for him,' says Jaaved Jaafrey on father's demise",2020-07-09,"Jaaved Jaafrey and Naved Jaafrey's father, Jagdeep, a veteran comedian and actor who was popular for his portrayal of Soorma Bhopali in Sholay and many more films, breathed his last on Wednesday. He was 81. As per the reports, the veteran actor had been suffering from age-related ailments. He passed away at 8:40 at his residence in the city. He was put to rest at Shia Kabristan in Mazgaon. Several family members and a few friends and colleagues from the industry attended the funeral. After the last rites, Jaaved along with brother, Naaved and son, Meezan addressed the media. Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan’s grandson, Agastya Nanda, to enter Bollywood?Jaaved thanked the media for their support and their love. He took the opportunity to thank countless fans and colleagues who had reached out to the family in this sad time wishing them. He apologized to them for not being able to reply but asked them to pray for his father. ""My father entertained you all for 70 long years, please do pray for him,"" he said. Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – RIP Jagdeep, Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?Meanwhile, a couple of hours ago, Meezan shared a cute picture of the late veteran actor. It is a childhood picture of Meezan with his grandfather. He could be seen giving him a peck on his cheeks. He posted a heart emoticon. Condolences started pouring in on the post soon after. Also Read - 'A humble human... loved by millions,' Amitabh Bachchan pays a tribute to late veteran actor JagdeepEarlier, Amitabh Bachchan who played the role of Jai in Sholay paid a heartfelt tribute to the actor. He wrote a blog paying his respecting and expressing his grief saying, ""Last night we lost another gem. Jagdeep, the actor of exceptional comedic repertoire, passed away. He had crafted a unique individual style of his own.. and I had the honour of working with him in several films.. the more prominent ones in the eyes of the audience being Sholay and Shahenshah.""Rest in peace, Jagdeep sir."
Web Desk,"Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke PROMO: Mishti, a murderer? Will Abir save his ladylove?",2020-07-09,"Shaheer Sheikh, Rhea Sharma, Kaveri Priyam, and Ritvik Arora's Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke won hearts since it aired its first episode. The fresh episodes of the show were not available due to the lockdown imposed. However, now we are in the unlock 1.0 phase and the shoots of many shows have begun already. Shaheer Sheikh and Rhea Sharma in a promo earlier, promised their fans to be back with a new story. We also saw how Abir is back in a new avatar to protect his sister, Ketki and his ladylove, Mishti. The lastest promo of the show is out now and it seems very interesting. In the promo we see, Mishti has been trapped in a murder case and Abir is trying to save her. It seems Mishti and Abir stay away from their family in a new house. Mishti is scared of being caught in the murder case while Abir assures her that he will be with her. Also Read - #BLBestof6: Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke, Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai, Naagin 4 — VOTE for the Best TV Promo in the first half of 2020We also see the police entering the Rajvansh house and asking for Mishti. Has Mishti murdered someone? Or is she trapped by someone? It will be interesting to see how Abir and Mishti will solve this problem together and be back to their families. Check out the promo here: Also Read - Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyaar Ke's Shaheer Sheikh gives a THROWBACK treat to fans as he shares his first ever selfieIt was earlier reported that Ruslaan Mumtaz will be a part of the show. He will be paired opposite Ketki (Trishaa Chatterjee) who is Abir's sister. Seema Pandey will be Ruslaan's mother in the show and we will get to see the new story soon. Earlier, in an interview with the Times Of India, Ruslaan Mumtaz had spoken about his character and what changes will it bring to the story of the show. He said, ""My character will affect the relationship between the lead pair, Mishti and Abir. I decided to accept this role because it is like a stroke of good luck after the birth of my baby. These are difficult times when actors are replaced, storylines are changed and shows are axed. I could never say ‘no’ to this opportunity, especially at a time when actors and technicians don’t know when they will land their next big project."" Also Read - #BLBestof6: Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai, Naagin 4, Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah — vote for the best TV show in the first half of 2020"
Web Desk,The Kapil Sharma Show: When Ranveer Singh 'humiliated' the host at his wedding,2020-07-09,"We all know how much Kapil Sharma loved Deepika Padukone. Yes, he is married but as they say, true love never fades. Teehee, Just joking. We miss Kapil and his pack of punches. His whole team of The Kapil Sharma Show and him being truly one of the most fun hosts one could ever meet. Now, Kapil loves to pull pranks on celebrities who drop by to promote their films on his show and he does so without a rule. So, back when Deepika Padukone, solo at first, had come to promote her social drama film, Chhapaak earlier this year, Kapil while being utmost decent had complained about Ranveer Singh to Deepika. Also Read - Kapil Sharma throws a Guess Who challenge with a flashback picture - have you identified yet?While talking to Deepika, Kapil told her that Ranveer had humiliated him at their wedding. When prodded Kapil had revealed the whole incident. It so happened that Kapil was a guest at Deepika and Ranveer's wedding reception. Ranveer playfully rubbed it on the comedian's face that he whisked Deepika away. Deepika laughed at that but ascertained the fact. Archana Puran Singh consoled Kapil who asked, ""Aise karna chahiye? Mehmaan ko bulake?"" The video is going viral as you read this. Have a dekko here: Also Read - Kapil Sharma hits back at a nasty social media user who questions his silence on Sushant Singh Rajput's demiseView this post on Instagram A post shared by EntertainmentBite (@entertainmentbite) on Jun 18, 2020 at 7:18am PDTMeanwhile, Ranveer and Deepika make for one of the most gorgeous Bollywood couple. The two met on the sets of Goliyon Ki Rasleela Ram-Leela and fell in love. They tied the knot in November 2018 at Lake Como in Italy. Recently, in a live Instagram chat, Ranveer had credit Deepika for keeping his humble and his achievements as well. ""It’s my 10th year and I met her three years into show business and been with her since then. I think I wouldn’t have been able to cope with the pressures of being a movie star, if she wouldn’t have been there. I would have been lost,"" he had said. Also Read - The Kapil Sharma Show: Kapil Sharma and company to resume the shoot from mid-July; THIS star can be the first guest"
Web Desk,Taimur's bond with Ranvir is same as mommy Kareena Kapoor Khan's with BFF Reena Pillai - this picture is proof,2020-07-09,"Kareena Kapoor Khan made her Instagram debut in March this year. The actress has a huge fan following on Instagram. Since she has joint Instagram, we have seen her sharing some really interesting posts. She never fails to amaze us with her pictures on social media. In just a few months, Kareena Kapoor Khan has become the social media queen. Our Bebo is also one of those who is true to her friends and values friendship. We have seen her with Malaika Arora, Amrita Arora and many others in Bollywood. The actress is fond of her friends. She recently gave us a glimpse of the bonds that exist in her life forever and its about her best friend, Reena Pillai. Now, their sons, Taimur Ali Khan and Ranvir are also the new BFFs. Kareena Kapoor Khan shared a old picture with Reena and also a recent picture from their vacation with their kids. Also Read - Kareena Kapoor Khan’s latest Instagram post on 2020 is relatable AFAlong with these pictures, Kareena Kapoor Khan wrote, ""Some friendships just don’t need a definition... they are embedded forever ❤❤?? @reenz290 Us ❤❤ and now Tim and Ranvir ??"" These adorable throwback pictures of Kareena Kapoor Khan-Reena Pillai and Taimur Ali Khan-Ranvir are pure #FriendshipGoals. Check out Kareena Kapoor Khan's post here: Also Read - Kiara Advani’s topless photoshoot, Kareena Kapoor Khan’s look from Laal Singh Chaddha – 11 VIRAL pictures of 2020 that cannot be missedOn the work front, Kareena Kapoor Khan will be seen opposite Aamir Khan in Laal Singh Chaddha. The film is an official adaptation of Tom Hanks starrer Forrest Gump. It was slated to release on Christmas 2020. However, a portion of the film is yet to be shot. The shooting was stalled due to the coronavirus outbreak in the country. Also Read - Laal Singh Chaddha: Makers of Aamir Khan-Kareena Kapoor starrer call-off shooting in Ladakh due to India-Sino tension"
Web Desk,Charu Asopa and Rajeev Sen delete their pictures from social media,2020-07-09,"Charu Asopa and Rajeev Sen got married in June last year. They have been in the news for a long time now for all not so good reasons. They had a grand wedding in Goa and the pictures were loved by the fans. They looked so perfect together and even their lovey-dovey posts on social media gave us all couple goals. However, it seems things are not going well between them. There seem to be some problems between the couple. Rajeev Sen had previously denied these reports and said that people are just assuming things and everything was fine between. But things do not seem so. Charu Asopa and Rajeev Sen have deleted their pictures from social media. Yes, the two have deleted all their pictures together and also the wedding pictures from their Instagram accounts. Also Read - Karan Patel, Bigg Boss 14, Charu Asopa — meet the TV newsmakers of the weekThis move by the two have sparked the rumours of their troubled marriage. This shows that there is a lot going on between them but they haven't spoken about it. The couple has chosen to remain silent. Fans are disappointed with this and want the couple to be back together. Also Read - Sushmita Sen's brother Rajeev Sen REACTS to rumours of split with wife, Charu Asopa, says, 'I’m in a very happy zone'View this post on Instagram He looks at you passionately ? A or B ? A post shared by Rajeev Sen (@rajeevsen9) on Jul 6, 2020 at 7:37am PDTCharu Asopa and Rajeev Sen are also not living together and they did not celebrate their first wedding anniversary as well. Charu is in Mumbai while Rajeev has been in Delhi. We hope things are fine between them and they soon clarify things. Also Read - Charu Asopa’s cryptic post about 'Being broken' hints at her troubled marriage with Rajeev Sen?"
Web Desk,FRIENDS star David Schwimmer feels Ross could have dated more women of all races,2020-07-09,"FRIENDS is one of the most popular American sitcoms. It enjoys a massive fanbase which is continuously growing even after airing its last episode in 2004. The show was known for its progressive content that was set in emotional yet hilarious situations. Having said that, the show was also criticised for having an all-white cast despite being set in New York City. Ross Gellar aka David Schwimmer recently opened up on the same saying that his character Ross could have dated women of all races. Also Read - FRIENDS: One of Phoebe's Triplets is breaking the internet with her TikTok debut""I really felt like Ross should date other people, women of all races,"" David Schwimmer told Entertainment Tonight. He went on to add that the representation could have been better, saying, ""It just felt wrong that there was not enough representation on the show."" Also Read - Friends fans can rejoice as the cast have secretly recorded a 90-minute special for their reunionHowever, he lauded the maker's efforts in showing progressive content on television from the start itself. He spoke about gay marriage and the first episode in which Ross is about to lose his wife. ""It was doing some incredible things,” Schwimmer said. “If you remember the pilot, my character was losing his wife to a woman. The way they portrayed gay marriage and how we as a family made it work, I thought was great."" Also Read - FRIENDS star Matt LeBlanc aka Joey takes hilarious jibe at the sitcom's long-delayed reunionMeanwhile, David alongside Courteney Cox, Jennifer Aniston, Lisa Kudrow, Matthew Perry and Matt LeBlanc was to shoot for a special reunion episode for their fans, however, it got postponed as a result of the pandemic. Talking about the same he said, ""I can tell you that we are hoping to shoot [the reunion] in August, in mid-August, but honestly, we will do it when it’s safe."" David said that they cannot shoot without live audience as they had been an integral part of their shooting process for ever. ""There has always been a hope that a component of that reunion show will have a live audience, which makes the whole thing really tricky. We are obviously not going to risk anyone’s health by doing this."""
Web Desk,"Bigg Boss 13's Asim Riaz buys his dream car, BMW 5 series — see pic",2020-07-09,"Bigg Boss 13 contestant Asim Riaz was one of the strongest contestants. He was one tough competition for Sidharth Shukla and has a huge fan following. He came in as a complete stranger and was considered as the weakest in the beginning. However, he emerged as one of the best and was loved by the audience. He has a huge fan following and people are in love with his fit body and charming looks. Asim Riaz was seen in many music videos like Khyaal Rakhya Kar and Kalla Sohna Nai. Both videos received a lot of positive response. Asim Riaz has now fulfilled his dream and is a proud owner of a luxurious car. He has brought his dream car- BMW 5 series. Asim Riaz posted a picture with his new car on Instagram and wrote, ""I’m extremely happy today to get my DREAM CAR. new beast - BMW 5"" Check out his post here: Also Read - Shaheer Sheikh, Shivangi Joshi, Hina Khan — here are the TV Instagrammers of the weekAsim Riaz's friend Rashami Desai also commented on the post and congratulated him. His girlfriend, Himanshi Khurana also congratulated him. His brother, Umar Riaz wrote, ""Congratulations bro. Finally!"" Asim Riaz's post has got a lot of likes and comments. Fans have sent him a lot of congratulatory messages. Also Read - Bigg Boss 13's Himanshi Khurana opens up on being body-shamed and boyfriend Asim Riaz's support"
Web Desk,When Tom Hanks ‘hated’ his Inferno co-star Irrfan Khan and wanted to copy him,2020-07-09,"Tom Hanks turns 64 today. He is one of the most respected actors. He’s not just a great actor but a nice human being. Many people have spoken about his kindness. At a past event, the actor revealed that he was impressed by his Inferno co-star, Irrfan Khan. He said, “Here’s what I hate about Irrfan Khan. I always think I’m the coolest guy in the room, and everybody’s hanging on to every word I say and everybody’s a little intimidated to be in my presence. And then Irrfan Khan walks into the room. And he’s the coolest guy in the room.” Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan to keep fans updated on his health on his own?He added that he wasted to ape Irrfan, “And as soon as I walked up to him I said, ‘Irrfan Khan, I’m going to steal from you everything I possibly can. I’m going to start speaking very quietly in films. I’m going to wear very nice suits. And I will draw out the last sound of every sentence that I say.’ And by doing that, I will be doing a very pale imitation of the coolest guy in the room.” Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan's Juhu bungalow sanitized by BMC workers — watch videosBefore shooting for Inferno, Tom had sent Irrfan a handwritten note, which Irrfan posted on Instagram. The message read: “This will be most pleasant movie to make, I think, provided you and I have a few more scenes together! If not, we will just have to save the world as is!” Also Read - JUST IN! Anupam Kher's mom, Dulari, brother Raju Kher and his family test positive for COVID-19In a 2016 interview to IANS, Tom had spoken about Indian films. He had said, “For a lot of years, Indian movies for us were Big B running around in his glasses and beating up bad guys or midgets and stuff like that. We didn’t quite understand what was going on. If everyone starts speaking the common language of cinema, it will start representing itself.”"
Web Desk,Ayushmann Khurrana and Aparshakti's birthday wish for mother is adorable beyond words — view post,2020-07-09,"Bollywood actor Ayushmann Khurrana, who is known for his memorable performances in films like AndhaDhun, Badhaai Ho, Dream Girl, Bala and others, shared an adorable pic to wish his mother on her birthday, where we see he and brother Aparshakti kissing their mother's forehead. The actor shared the pic and wrote, ""Happy birthday Ma"" with a heart emoji.Interestingly, Aparshakti also shared the pic to wish her dear mom. Also Read - Ayushmann Khurrana and brother Aparshakti buy a palatial home worth Rs 9 crore in PanchkulaView this post on Instagram Happy birthday Ma ❤️ A post shared by Ayushmann Khurrana (@ayushmannk) on Jul 8, 2020 at 8:36am PDTView this post on Instagram Happy Bday Mummmmmma❤️ A post shared by Aparshakti Khurana (@aparshakti_khurana) on Jul 8, 2020 at 8:32am PDTOn the work front, Ayushmann Khurrana was last seen in Gulabo Sitabo along with Amitabh Bachchan. Directed by Shoojit Sircar, the film released on an OTT platform. Talking about the film, the actor earlier said, ""Gulabo Sitabo is a special film for me. It made me reunite with my mentor Shoojit da after Vicky Donor. Whatever I’m today is because of him and I’m happy that he made me a part of his vision again. Gulabo Sitabo also sees me share the screen space with Mr. Amitabh Bachchan for the first time and it’s a huge moment, it’s a dream come true for me. I have secretly wished to work with him for many, many years and Shoojit da made this happen and I will be indebted to him forever. It has truly been an honour for me to work with a legend and I feel enriched as an actor after the experience. What I love about the film is its sheer simplicity - the fleeting moments of simple humour in the banter between a landlord and tenant makes this film really special. I hope audiences love the film and our chemistry when it premieres."" Also Read - RIP Jagdeep: Ayushmann Khurrana, Ajay Devgn, Abhishek Bachchan condole the demise of Sholay's Soorma BhopaliOur critic Russel D'Silva gave the film 3 stars and wrote, ""Take Amitabh Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana out of Gulabo Sitabo, especially the former, and there's precious little to hold your interest. Its OTT release seems more like a convenient quirk of fate to escape potential theatrical disappointment rather than a product of the times we live in. I'm going with 3/5 stars with 0.5 of that rating solely dedicated to the Big B's performance."" So, have you watched this film? Tweet and let us know @bollywood_life. Also Read - Watching Ayushmann Khurrana and Aparshakti Khurana play Aao Milo will make you instantly happy"
Web Desk,WWE NXT Great American Bash Day 2 full results: Keith Lee defeats Adam Cole to become the champion,2020-07-09,"The second day of the WWE NXT Great American Bash saw Keith Lee defeat Adam Cole. He became the first superstar to hold the NXT Championship and the North American Championship simultaneously in the main event. Lee ended Cole’s record 403-day run as the champion. Lee and Cole’s match was excellent. It looked like Lee was headed for a loss when Cole hit a Last Shot at the end. But instead of pinning the challenger, Cole went to the top rope for a Panama Sunrise. Lee turned the maneuver into a Spirit Bomb and then hit a Big Bang Catastrophe to defeat Cole. Also Read - WWE: Varun Dhawan writes an emotional note on The Undertaker’s retirement, says the wrestler was a part of his dreams and nightmaresFull Day 2 results: Also Read - #ThankYouTaker trends as WWE confirms The Undertaker's retirement — read tweetCandice LeRae beat Mia Yim in a Street Fight Also Read - WWE wrestler tests positive for CoronavirusBronson Reed beat Tony NeseJohnny Gargano beat Isaiah “Swerve” ScottLegado del Fantasma beat Drake Maverick & BreezangoMercedes Martinez beat Santana GarrettNorth American Champion Keith Lee beat Adam ColeTriple H took to twitter and congratulated Lee. He wrote, “A truly historic night for #WWENXT tonight at #NXTGAB as @RealKeithLee now holds both the #NXTChampionship AND #NXTNATitle. Each new champion begins a new era... where he brings @WWENXT? The possibilities are #Limitless. #Congratstonight at #NXTGAB tonight at #NXTGAB as@RealKeithLee.""On Cole’s NXT Title loss, Triple H tweeted saying that Adam Cole is just getting started. He wrote, “There is a saying “it’s the talent that makes the title.” During his 403 day reign over the black and gold brand Adam Cole MADE the NXT championship, THE championship. That reign might be over but he’s just getting started. Adam Cole IS #WWENXT”There is a saying “it’s the talent that makes the title.”During his 403 day reign over the black and gold brand Adam Cole MADE the NXT championship, THE championship. That reign might be over but he’s just getting started.Adam Cole IS #WWENXTand that...is #Undisputed. #NXTGAB pic.twitter.com/hJ6GMXOK1p — Triple H (@TripleH) July 9, 2020Ever since making his debut, Cole has been impressive with several high profile matches to his name. He won the North American Championship before finally reaching the top by beating Johnny Gargano to win the NXT Championship. He continued to dominate every wrestler in the WWE, not just NXT."
Web Desk,RIP Jagdeep: Adnan Sami shares a visual tribute for the late actor — watch video,2020-07-09,"Veteran actor and comedian Jagdeep passed away yesterday. He was 81. He died due to health-related issues. The actor was best known for his role of Soorma Bhopali in Sholay. Adnan Sami shared a video of his song Lift Karade and it featured Jagdeep. It has several funny moments of Jagdeep from his movies. He captioned the video, “Thank you Nishant Kankal for putting these moments together...Repost: “Heaven won't have a dull moment. R.I.P Jagdeep Saab. Tatkal Quota” Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan’s grandson, Agastya Nanda, to enter Bollywood?Adnan had previously shared his thoughts on the actor. He wrote, “Oh Lord... I am so shattered by the news just now that our beloved legendary Jagdeep Sahib has passed away.I have so many childhood memories of his genius whilst growing up. He was such an incredible actor with the most impeccable timing & unique comedic persona. He was an original!! Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – RIP Jagdeep, Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?He was also such a loving man with fatherly warmth. I had the honour of working with him as well in ‘Lift Karade’ where he reprised his iconic character of ‘Soorma Bhopali’. I had tears in my eyes when I saw him do that. What love!!Each role he did was unique & memorable and his presence always resonated on the big screen. He was forever smiling and encouraging. Also Read - RIP Jagdeep: 'My father entertained you all for 70 long years, please do pray for him,' says Jaaved Jaafrey on father's demiseMy heartfelt & deepest condolences to the family which is very close to my heart…Dearest Uncle, I will miss you & may Allah SWT bless you in the highest place in Jannat-ul-Firdaus.“ALLAH AAP KI TAMANNA PURI KARAY”Jagdeep is survived by sons Jaaved, Naved and grandson Meezaan. He died at his residence in Mumbai. Apart from Sholay, he was seen in many films like Andaz Apna Apna, Rishtey, Manna, Aar Paar, Do Bigha Zamin, Hum Panchi Ek Dal Ke, A Dilli Door Nahin and more. May his soul rest in peace."
Web Desk,"Varun Dhawan extends support to 200 Bollywood dancers, transfers money directly to their bank accounts",2020-07-09,"Due to the lockdown effect of coronavirus, we saw Bollywood and people associated got badly affected. Bollywood background dancers were among them as they appealed to stars and producers for help through a collective video. And actor Varun Dhawan, who has essayed the role of a dancer in films like Street Dancer 3D and ABCD 2 has extended his support to 200 dancers by transferring money directly in their bank accounts. Also Read - #6YearsOfHSKD: Sidharth Shukla fans remind makers that the Balika Vadhu star was also a part of the film as they make him trend on topRaj Surani, a former background dancer and now a song co-ordinator revealed this news and told ET, “Varun Dhawan has helped the needy dancers. He has worked with a lot of them in three dance films. He was very concerned about how the dancers are managing their livelihood. He promised to help them and try and address their problems.” He further added, “There are many dancers who continue to face issues with their landlords over rent. There are others who have ailing parents and there are seniors who need medicine from time to time. We are thankful to all those who are helping the dancers. Though shooting has begun but dancers will have to wait for really long time before they can go back on sets.” Also Read - Varun Dhawan-Sara Ali Khan's Coolie No 1 to release in theatres on THIS date?Varun Dhawan will be next seen in Coolie No 1 along with Sara Ali Khan. The makers have recreated one of the iconic tracks from the original one for the remake, which is Mein Toh Raste Se Ja Raha Tha. It is composed by Tanishk Bagchi. Talking about the track, director David Dhawan said, “It is an important song for our film, and it has heart. But times have changed so I am going to picturise it very differently with Varun and Sara."" Recalling about the original track, David said. “We found a place in Bangalore with lot of Bhel Puri stalls and had the lead pair (Govinda and Karisma) strolling through it, exploring ‘Mumbai’. I thought it was the best way to capture the essence of the Maximum City back then."" Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – RIP Jagdeep, Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?"
Web Desk,"RIP Jagdeep: From Sholay's Soorma Bhopali to Purana Mandir's Macchar Singh, the man who never failed to make us laugh",2020-07-09,"The year 2020 is turning out to be a terrible one for all movie buffs. After the demises of Irrfan Khan, Rishi Kapoor, Sushant Singh Rajput, it is veteran comedian Jagdeep who has passed away. The man from Madhya Pradesh started off as a child artiste in the industry before he went on to make a name for himself in Bollywood. Fans will remember him best as Soorma Bhopali from the film, Sholay. The character is sealed in the history books of Bollywood. Actors are remembering him as someone who never failed to make them laugh. Ajay Devgan wrote on Twitter, ""Heard the sad news of Jagdeep Saab’s demise. Always enjoyed watching him on screen. He brought so much joy to the audience. My deepest condolences to Jaaved and all members of the family. Prayers for Jagdeep Saab’s soul."" Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan’s grandson, Agastya Nanda, to enter Bollywood?Born on March 29, 1939 as Syed Ishtiaq Ahmed Jafri in Amritsar, Jagdeep acted in over 400 films. He is best known for his role of Soorma Bhopali in Ramesh Sippy's blockbuster Sholay (1975). New-generation Bollywood buffs would recall him as Salman Khan's father in Rajkumar Santoshi's Andaaz Apna Apna (1994). He began his career with BR Chopra's 1951 film, Afsana that starred Ashok Kumar, Veena and Pran. He also worked in movies like Ab Dilli Door Nahin, Munna, Aar Paar, Do Bigha Zamin and the AVM-produced Hum Panchi Ek Dal Ke. Later on, he would go onto make a mark with films like Bhabhi (1957) and Barkha (1959). Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – RIP Jagdeep, Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?It was Bimal Roy who had seen the potential of Jagdeep as an artiste when he was performing in a film named, Dhobi Doctor. He went on to do a humorous role in Do Bigha Zameen. The veteran had narrated how Bimal Roy wanted him to wear an old shirt for a scene. It seems the production people got a brand new one from Andheri Naka. Roy later rubbed the shirt with a stone to make it look tattared. The comedian was a good story-teller and had many such anecdotes to narrate to his audience. Also Read - RIP Jagdeep: 'My father entertained you all for 70 long years, please do pray for him,' says Jaaved Jaafrey on father's demiseJagdeep will be missed by generations. BollywoodLife extends its condolences to his family and friends."
Web Desk,"Kiara Advani’s topless photoshoot, Kareena Kapoor Khan’s look from Laal Singh Chaddha – 11 VIRAL pictures of 2020 that cannot be missed",2020-07-09,"A lot can happen in a year, they say, but then again, maybe they haven’t seen the first half of 2020. A lot can happen in just a span of six months. We are finally in July which means it’s the time for a recap of the first half of 2020. In the past six months, despite the lockdown and pandemic and all thanks to social media, pictures and videos went viral like a wildfire. Our celebs and their fanpages kept sharing pictures and videos giving a glimpse of their life. Some of them went viral and created a lot of buzz. Let’s have a recap of the same. Also Read - Kareena Kapoor Khan’s latest Instagram post on 2020 is relatable AFKiara Advani and Bhumi Pednekar went toplessView this post on Instagram A post shared by KIARA (@kiaraaliaadvani) on Feb 18, 2020 at 5:30am PSTView this post on Instagram A post shared by Dabboo Ratnani (@dabbooratnani) on Feb 17, 2020 at 11:06pm PSTEvery year, Dabboo Ratnani conducts a calendar photoshoot with celebrities from the entertainment industry. This year Kiara Advani and Bhumi Pednekar’s photoshoot for Dabboo’s calendar went viral. The two leading ladies of Bollywood went topless for the photoshoot that created quite a stir on social media. Dabboo was also accused of plagiarism only to prove his credibility. Also Read - Taimur's bond with Ranvir is same as mommy Kareena Kapoor Khan's with BFF Reena Pillai - this picture is proofPriyanka Chopra-Nick Jonas playing HoliView this post on Instagram A post shared by Priyanka Chopra Jonas (@priyankachopra) on Mar 10, 2020 at 12:25am PDTTaimur’s Tiger faceView this post on Instagram A post shared by A Stars Real Life (@astarreallife) on Feb 6, 2020 at 9:20am PSTRanveer Singh as Kapil DevView this post on Instagram A post shared by Ranveer Singh (@ranveersingh) on Mar 6, 2020 at 10:30pm PSTRanveer Singh’s post quarantine lookView this post on Instagram A post shared by Ranveer Singh (@ranveersingh) on Mar 6, 2020 at 10:30pm PSTKartik Aaryan’s Junta Curfew lookView this post on Instagram A post shared by KARTIK AARYAN (@kartikaaryan) on Mar 22, 2020 at 5:15am PDTSara Ali Khan’s birthday post for brother, IbrahimView this post on Instagram A post shared by Sara Ali Khan (@saraalikhan95) on Mar 4, 2020 at 11:58pm PSTKareena Kapoor Khan’s airbrushed kneesView this post on Instagram A post shared by Kareena Kapoor Khan (@therealkareenakapoor) on Jan 6, 2020 at 1:12am PSTJacqueline Fernandez at Salman Khan’s farmhouseView this post on Instagram A post shared by Salman Khan (@beingsalmankhan) on Apr 28, 2020 at 10:30pm PDTPriyanka Chopra’s Grammy lookView this post on Instagram A post shared by Priyanka Chopra Jonas (@priyankachopra) on Jan 26, 2020 at 9:22pm PSTKareena Kapoor Khan’s look from Laal Singh ChaddhaView this post on Instagram A post shared by Aamir Khan (@_aamirkhan) on Feb 13, 2020 at 9:24pm PST"
Web Desk,Throwback to the time when Jaaved Jaaferi recalled father Jagdeep's struggle in Mumbai at the age of 9,2020-07-09,"Veteran actor and comedian, Jagdeep, who became a household name for his performance of Soorma Bhopali in Sholay, passed away yesterday at the age of 81. Starting his career as a child artiste in films like Do Bigha Zamin, Aar Paar, Jagdeep went to star in many blockbusters of Bollywood. While the comedian has gave us some hilarious moments, a throwback interview of son and actor Jaaved Jaaferi has been floating on the internet, where he was talking about Jagdeep's struggle right from his initial days. Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan’s grandson, Agastya Nanda, to enter Bollywood?Talking to Zoom, he said, “I had a lot of experiences passed on second hand through my father. Obviously, it's not my personal experience. He was thrown on the street at the age of 9, 10. Coming from a good household, good family from some place in Gwalior and then suddenly coming to Mumbai and then on the street, on a footpath living under a bridge with his mother. I got that and how he met the people and how filmmakers were then. Because there was no father, the father-figures for him were Bimal Roy, Guru Dutt, K Asif, Mehboob Khan and they used to talk to him like an adult because my father was very matured at that age also. So, all that he absorbed, he passed it on to us.” Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – RIP Jagdeep, Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?Lauding his father as a child artiste, he added, “In my opinion, he was the best child actor I have seen in Hindi cinema till now and I don't exaggerate. If I look at his work as a child actor, it just flows so naturally. Look at a film like Do Bigha Zamin, look at him as shoe shine boy, look at Aar Paar. And you see that this kid is crying real, there is no glycerine, which is another amazing thing about him, he can cry. As a child he is crying real tears with the scene. So, for me, that was amazing. And then he passed it on to me, to us. And for me that was important. That stayed with me and those values still uphold.” Also Read - RIP Jagdeep: 'My father entertained you all for 70 long years, please do pray for him,' says Jaaved Jaafrey on father's demiseRIP Jagdeep."
Web Desk,"RIP Jagdeep: Ali Asgar, Kiku Sharda, Karan Tacker and TV celebs mourn the demise of veteran comedian",2020-07-09,"2020 has definitely not been kind to us as we lost one more gem in the form veteran actor and comedian, Jagdeep. The actor was known for his iconic role of Soorma Bhopali in an all-time blockbuster Sholay. The actor was 81 and was also seen in films like Andaz Apna Apna, Muskurahat, Phool Aur Kaante and others. His real name was Syed Ishtiaq Ahmed Jafri and was father of Jaaved Jaaferi and Naved Jaffrey. Apart from Bollywood celebs, many TV stars like Ali Asgar, Kiku Sharda, Karan Tacker, Rohit and others mourned the demise of the actor. Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan’s grandson, Agastya Nanda, to enter Bollywood?RIP Jagdeep Sir , you were an inspiration for all of us ..? heartfelt condolences to @NavedJafri_BOO and @jaavedjaaferi may God give you and your family strength to bear this great loss ? — Suresh Menon (@sureshnmenon) July 8, 2020Another legend leaves us... thank you for the many, many decades of smiles and cheers... #JagdeepJi RIP ?? — Rohit Bose Roy (@rohitroy500) July 8, 2020Unfortunately, we lost Legend Jagdeep Sahab..RIP — Rohitashv Gour (@RohitashvG) July 8, 2020Loved watching Jagdeep sahab while growing up.. will always remember him in fond memories , thank you for all the entertainment sir..My deep condolences to the family #Jagdeep — Karan Tacker (@karantacker) July 8, 2020Rest in Peace Jagdeep sir. I have performed/enacted so many of your film scenes on the stage of school functions. You will be missed. My condolences to @NavedJafri_BOO @jaavedjaaferi and the entire family ?? — kiku sharda (@kikusharda) July 8, 2020The last rites of Jagdeep was held at Mazgaon. RIP Jagdeep. Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – RIP Jagdeep, Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?"
Web Desk,"RIP Jagdeep: Ayushmann Khurrana, Ajay Devgn, Abhishek Bachchan condole the demise of Sholay's Soorma Bhopali",2020-07-09,"In another sad news for the industry, veteran actor Jagdeep left us for his heavenly abode on Wednesday. He was 81. The news was confirmed by superstar Ajay Devgn. He tweeted, ""Heard the sad news of Jagdeep Saab's demise. Always enjoyed watching him on screen. He brought so much joy to the audience. My deepest condolences to Jaaved and all members of the family. Prayers for Jagdeep Saab's soul."" His sons Jaaved Jaaferi and Naved are also well-known artistes. They were the creators of India's first dance reality show, Boogie Woogie. Naved Jafri directed the show. Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan’s grandson, Agastya Nanda, to enter Bollywood?Celebs like Ayushmann Khurrana, John Abraham, Abhishek Bachchan, Sidharth Malhotra and Ashoke Pandit have condoled the demise of the legendary talent. His grandson Meezan Jaaferi made his debut last year with Sanjay Leela Bhansali's Malaal. Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – RIP Jagdeep, Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?Heard the sad news of Jagdeep Saab’s demise. Always enjoyed watching him on screen. He brought so much joy to the audience. My deepest condolences to Jaaved and all members of the family. Prayers for Jagdeep Saab’s soul? — Ajay Devgn (@ajaydevgn) July 8, 2020May you rest in peace Jagdeep sahab. Thank you for filling our lives with smiles. ?? — Abhishek Bachchan (@juniorbachchan) July 8, 2020? RIP #Jagdeep sir!Your contribution to the industry will always be remembered. Thank you for the laughs. Thank you for the memories. pic.twitter.com/yzLdD7qWfy — Ayushmann Khurrana (@ayushmannk) July 8, 2020Thank you #Jagdeep sahab for enriching our lives with laughter and happiness that will be cherished for a lifetime. Rest In peace Sir. Deepest Condolences to the family, friends and millions of his fans(just like me). pic.twitter.com/jyrKFHq9Hw — Riteish Deshmukh (@Riteishd) July 9, 2020Saddened to hear about Jagdeep Sahab's demise. A Hindi cinemas legendary actor, who’s made us laugh on so many occasion... thank you Sir, you will be in our memories forever. My condolences with his family ?@jaavedjaaferi @MeezaanJ — Sidharth Malhotra (@SidMalhotra) July 9, 2020Born on March 29, 1939 as Syed Ishtiaq Ahmed Jafri in Amritsar, Jagdeep acted in over 400 films. He is best known for his role of Soorma Bhopali in Ramesh Sippy's blockbuster ""Sholay"" (1975). New-generation Bollywood buffs would recall him as Salman Khan's father in Rajkumar Santoshi's ""Andaaz Apna Apna"" (1994). Also Read - RIP Jagdeep: 'My father entertained you all for 70 long years, please do pray for him,' says Jaaved Jaafrey on father's demiseJagdeep started his career as a child artiste in BR Chopra's 1951 release, ""Afsana"", starring Ashok Kumar, Veena and Pran. As a child artiste he also worked in the Raj Kapoor-produced ""Ab Dilli Door Nahin"", KA Abbas's ""Munna"", Guru Dutt's ""Aar Paar"", Bimal Roy's ""Do Bigha Zamin"" and the AVM-produced ""Hum Panchi Ek Dal Ke"".Later, he would make a mark with roles in films such as ""Bhabhi"" (1957) and ""Barkha"" (1959). Jagdeep's golden patch would begin with GP Sippy's 1968 film ""Brahmachari"", starring Shammi Kapoor. His comic role in the film was widely appreciated. Through the seventies, eighties and the nineties, he became a familiar face in Hindi films, essaying the goofy funnyman in film after film. His last-released film is ""Masti Nahi Sasti"" in 2017. The Ali Abbas Chaudhary-directed comedy also featured Kader Khan, Shakti Kapoor, Johnny Lever and Prem Chopra.(With inputs from IANS)"
Web Desk,"'Thalapathy Vijay and Chiyaan Vikram can pull off any look with ease,' says Bigil and Cobra costume designer Komal Shahani",2020-07-09,"Thalapathy Vijay and Chiyaan Vikram are two of the biggest stars in the Tamil industry, who are known for their massy blockbusters. Both the actors do experiment with their roles and nail it with ease and finesse. Mumbai based costume designer, Komal Shahani, who has worked with both the actors said that these two can pull off any look with ease. Talking about her journey, she told ET, ""I made my debut with 180. I had styled an advertisement here and that's how I met ARM sir. He'd asked if I would work for a film he was directing, and that's how I got an opportunity to work in Thuppakki. Since then I have worked in several films for ARM and Vijay sir."" Also Read - 'I'm forever in your debt,' Varalaxmi Sarathkumar has an emotional birthday wish for director BalaKomal, who has collaborated with Vijay for films Theri, Mersal, Bigil and others, said, ""Despite his stardom, Vijay sir is so simple, humble and is always ready to try new things. He is always willing to experiment and gives me a free hand when it comes to exploring costumes. He trusts my opinion and my styling. He has never been the kind of person, who is unreasonable or hell-bent about looks, costumes etc. He knows about all the current trends. I ensure I style keeping the trends in mind. It is wonderful to be associated with someone, who is level-headed and fun. His dedication and concern to everyone on the set amazes me."" Also Read - Meera Mitun warns Trisha Krishnan on social media; says, 'Don't copy me, Grow up!'Talking about her experience of styling Vijay, she said, ""My costume styling depends on the character. We work on a photoshoot, colour palette and then decide on the look. For Thuppakki, we gave colours that he wasn't seen in - like Olive Green, Navy Blue. We also styled him differently like making him wear tee shirts inside a shirt etc. I ensure the actor is comfortable. When you are acting, these things shouldn’t bother you."" She further added, ""I think his fans really like his look in Jilla. I got a lot of appreciation from them. The rolled up puffed sleeves made quite a style statement,"" she says and adds, ""In Theri, he was a stylish cop. For Mersal, I designed the doctor's and magician's looks. For Bigil, it was a lot more fun. We designed the football tee from scratch. For Rayappan's look, we gave something that he hasn't done before. We did so many photoshoots and trials and eventually attained the look. Atlee sir and GK Vishnu had a huge part in this. It is all team work."" Also Read - Week That Was South: Nithiin prepones his marriage with Shalini, Vijay Sethupathi reveals about his role in MasterWhen asked about her experience on working with Vikram, she said, ""Vikram sir is chilled out and fun. He transforms into every look we give. Both Vijay sir and Vikram sir can pull off any look with ease. They have an effortless style and their eye for detail is commendable."" She added, ""I've known Ajay since Thuppakki days. He was assisting Murugadoss sir at that time. We share a nice rapport and I have seen his growth since then. ""The team had revealed seven looks, but the film has more looks. It was a treat to work with Ajay and his team. I can't talk about the looks right now, but we did a lot of research."""
Web Desk,"Abhinav Kohli shares a picture of son Reyaansh, says, 'It’s been 1 month and 23 days since your mummy separated us'",2020-07-09,"Shweta Tiwari and Abhinav Kohli have been living separately for some time now. This has happened after she accused him of domestic violence. Abhinav Kohli has slammed all her allegations of late. He has taken to social media to write how much he is missing his two-year-old son, Reyaansh. He posted a picture of Reyaansh and wrote about how Shweta Tiwari is not allowing him to meet their son. He wrote on Instagram, ""I miss you. It’s been 1 month and 23 days since your mummy seperated us. I love you beyond words and surely by God’s grace I will hug you tight very soon."" Also Read - Shocking! Shweta Tiwari's ex-husband Abhinav Kohli asked daughter Palak about her virginity, alleges the actress' friendAbhinav Kohli in a long interview to The Times Of India said that Shweta Tiwari is not allowing him inside her building. It seems he was looking after Reyaansh when she was away shooting for Meri Dad Ki Dulhan. He said she was letting him meet Reyaansh till May but later told him to stay away as she feared coronavirus. He said that he went to meet his son on May 14 but she called the cops and had him thrown out. It seems he went as he was worried about his son. Kohli said he was crying at the police station. Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – RIP Jagdeep, Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?Shweta Tiwari separated from her first husband, Raja Chaudhary as she faced domestic violence. In 2019, she said in the press conference about the kind of skepticism she faced. Shweta Tiwari said, ""Achha? Dobara bhi problem? Aisa ho nahi sakta. Aisa kyu nahi ho sakta? At least I have the guts that if I faced a problem again, I could speak up about my problems without any fear whatsoever. What others think of me is none of my concern. I will only do what is right for my child and my personal growth."" Also Read - From Sidharth Shukla’s 'FIXED' Bigg Boss 13 victory to Hindustani Bhau filing a case against Ekta Kapoor – 8 controversies that SHOOK the world of TV"
Web Desk,"'Thalapathy Vijay talks less but his works speaks,' says ace choreographer Brindha Master",2020-07-09,"It seems that National-award choreographer, Brindha Gopal, who is fondly called as Brindha Gopal by fans, is on a spree of sharing some throwback memories on her social media. The ace choreographer recently posted working stills with Thalapathy Vijay and heaped praises on him by writing, ""Sarkar movie working stills with Vijay sir. I’ve worked with him for many other movies. A very down to earth person. He talks less but his works speaks. A very talented and humble person."" Also Read - Week That Was South: Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's Radhe Shyam first look released, Allu Arjun shares an adorable pic of daughter ArhaSarkar movie working stills with Vijay sir. I’ve worked with him for many other movies. A very down to earth person. He talks less but his works speaks. A very talented and humble person.???? pic.twitter.com/X83nZTxWF9 — Brindha Gopal (@BrindhaGopal1) July 8, 2020The multi-talented personality is all set to make her directorial debut with Aye Sinamika featuring Dulquer Salmaan, Aditi Rao Hydari and Kajal Aggarwal. On the other hand, Thalapathy Vijay is gearing up for the release of Master. It is bankrolled under the banners of XB Film Creators and Seven Screen Productions, also stars Arjun Das and Shantanu Bhagyaraj in pivotal roles. In the recently held audio launch, the actor praised his costar, Vijay Sethupathi, and said, ""Vijay Sethupathi has now become a person who cannot be avoided. We have seen many negative characters, but his role in Master will be special. I asked him why he agreed to do the film and he shut me down by saying four words — I really like you."" Also Read - Master: Thalapathy Vijay's film will release ONLY in theatres, confirms producer Xavier BrittoAppreciating his director, Thalapathy Vijay said, ""With Maanagaram, Lokesh made us notice his talent. His next film Kaithi made us watch it again and again. Lokesh has a special talent. Being a banker, he has managed to do a film like Maanagaram, which has a complex script. He won't even have a scene break-up paper in his hand on the set of Master and I was confused seeing this. I wondered how to work with him for the next few months. Later, I realised, Lokesh is not just a planner, but a master-planner."" The actor concluded the speech with a punch-line to his haters, ""Kill them with your success, bury them with your smile. Sometimes, if we have to stay true, we have to be silent."" So, are you excited for Master? Tweet and let us know @bollywood_life. Also Read - 'Thalapathy Vijay and Chiyaan Vikram can pull off any look with ease,' says Bigil and Cobra costume designer Komal Shahani"
Web Desk,Mahesh Babu's birthday wish for his makeup man will warm your heart,2020-07-09,"Mahesh Babu is known to be a thorough gentleman. The handsome actor from the Telugu film industry proved it, yet again. He took to Instagram to wish his makeup man, Pattabhi on his birthday. Mahesh Babu wrote, ""Happy Birthday Pattabhi...From extensive shoot hours to the last minute touch-ups, he’s the man who's always been there! Wishing you happiness and many blessings."" He also shared a cute picture where we can see him smiling as Pattabhi does some touch ups on his chin. It is so heart-warming to see such appreciation from the Sarileru Neekevvaru actor. The two have had a long association. Also Read - #BLBestOf6: Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo, Sarileru Neekevvaru, Bheeshma: Vote for the best South film trailer of 2020 so farMahesh Babu's wife Namrata Shirodkar also wished the man, who is like an elder brother. She commented, ""Happy happy birthday... patabhi garu...many blessings now n always."" Mahesh Babu has been spending this lockdown at home spending quality time with the kids. His daughter, Sitara is the happiest as this is the maximum time she has got to spend with her daddy dearest. Mahesh Babu has been reading books and watching shows online. He often recommends stuff to his fans. Also Read - #BLBestOf6: Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo, Jaanu, Forensic - vote for the Best South film of 2020 so farThe actor will be seen next in Sarkar Vaari Paata, which is being directed by Parsuram. The movie has a backdrop of a bank scam. Namrata said that the movie will be a complete entertainer. The hunt is on for the leading lady. Parsuram has directed the hit film, Geetha Govindam starring Vijay Deverakonda and Rashmika Mandanna. Mahesh Babu's last film Sarileru Neekevvaru was a huge box office success. He played the role of an Army officer in the Anil Ravipudi movie. Also Read - #BLBestOf6: Allu Arjun, Mahesh Babu, Mammootty – VOTE for the Best South Actor of first half of 2020"
Web Desk,"#BLBestOf6: Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo, Jaanu, Forensic - vote for the Best South film of 2020 so far",2020-07-09,"The year 2020 has been a bad one for the entertainment industry. We have not had a single release in the theatres since almost four months and it has been coupled by the deaths of some luminous artistes. However, the year 2020 had started with a bang, especially for the South Indian film industry. We had feel-good family flicks like Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo and Sarileru Neekevvaru on one hand, as well as some well-crafted and chilling thrillers on the other. Here is a look at our pick and now it is your time to vote... Also Read - #BLBestOf6: Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo, Sarileru Neekevvaru, Bheeshma: Vote for the best South film trailer of 2020 so farAla VaikunthapurramulooAfter the blockbuster Aravinda Sametha, filmmaker Trivikram Srinivas teamed up with Allu Arjun to deliver the Sankranti hit, Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo. They have given hits like S/O Satyamurthy and Julayi before. The movie songs like Ramulo Ramula and Butta Bomma are global hits. We have seen David Warner's TikTok videos on the same. Allu Arjun was in full form in the film as a masala hero. From his breezy moves to comedy sequences, Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo proved to be the perfect family film and money-spinner. Also Read - #BLBestOf6: Samantha Akkineni, Pooja Hegde, Keerthy Suresh – VOTE for the Best South Actress of first half of 2020View this post on Instagram A post shared by Trivikram Srinivas (@trivikramcelluloid) on Jan 17, 2020 at 12:01am PSTSarileru NeekevvaruMahesh Babu is having a dream run at the box-office. After Spyder, all his films have been doing great. He was actor-producer in Sarileru Neekevvaru. In the film, Mahesh Babu played the role of a Army major. His chemistry with Rashmika Mandanna was also loved by the audience. It is rated as one of the biggest hits of Mahesh Babu's career. Also Read - Has Ranveer Singh being approached for Allu Arjun's role in the Bollywood remake of Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo? — deets insideJaanuThe Tamil film '96 is hailed as a modern day classic. Filmmaker C Prem Kumar, who made the original, stepped in to make the Telugu version of the same. Critics loved the realistic treatment and tender narrative of the adult romance. They also showered love on Sharwanand and Samantha Akkineni's performances in the remake.View this post on Instagram #JAANU in Cinemas from Today ? A post shared by Sharwanand (@imsharwanand) on Feb 6, 2020 at 10:33am PSTPsychoUdhayanidhi Stalin, Aditi Rao Hydari and Nithya Menen were in fine form in Psycho, a thriller on a serial killer made by Mysskin. The story left the critics and audiences impressed. The music given by Ilaiyaraaja was also a huge contributor in the success of the movie.View this post on Instagram A post shared by Udhayanidhi Stalin (@udhay_stalin) on Sep 6, 2018 at 5:48am PDTForensicThe Malayalam film industry gave us two engaging thrillers in the first half of 2020 namely Forensic and Anjaam Pathiraa. In Forensic, we saw Mamta Mohandas as a cop and Tovino Thomas as a medico and legal expert. The movie dealt with forensic science and gave new insights to a viewer. Critics also appreciated the movie.View this post on Instagram ‘FORENSIC’ streaming on @netflix_in from June 7th !! A post shared by Tovino Thomas (@tovinothomas) on Jun 2, 2020 at 1:54am PDTAnjaam PathiraaAnjaam Pathiraa turned out to be a surprise package for all lovers of the thriller genre. Critics showered praise on writer Midhun Manuel Thomas, cinematographer Shyju Khalid and Sushin Shyam’s music that elevated the film by several notches. Kunchacko Boban did his best as a lawyer who is an expert in criminal minds. The back story was also a startling one.View this post on Instagram #AnjaamPathiraa A post shared by Anjaam Pathiraa (@anjaampathiraa) on Jan 30, 2020 at 11:52pm PSTSo, guys do not waste much time vote and make your favourites win!"
Web Desk,Will Anita Hassanandani return in Naagin 5? The actress answers,2020-07-09,"As the unlock phase has begun, we saw things coming slowly on track across the country. The shooting of serials and films recently resumed and we are set to watch the fresh episodes of our favourite soap operas from the coming Monday. Talking about Ekta Kapoor's supernatural show, Naagin 4, the filming of last few episodes including the grand finale and as per actress Anita Hassanandani, the makers are managing well with limited crew and are following complete safety precautions implemented by the government. Also Read - Video of the Week: Anita Hassanandani-Rohit Reddy's modern twist to Shah Rukh Khan-Kajol's iconic DDLJ scene is way too hilariousTalking to Mumbai Mirror, she said, “My husband was really scared sending me back to work. But once I was back, I felt safe with all the precautions being taken. On Ekta’s (Kapoor) set, the actor’s well-being is always top priority.” The Krishna Cottage actress further added, “I don’t have to do much, just make sure I keep sanitising my hands often and wash them whenever I go into the vanity van. I am also careful not to touch my face much. Everyone’s safety is more important right now than how the show looks.” Also Read - Happy birthday, Pearl V Puri: Karishma Tanna, Surbhi Jyoti and others wish the charming actorWhen asked whether her character of Vishakha will make a comeback in Naagin 5, she replied, “I’m fortunate to have been a part of two seasons and would love to be in the next one, too. But I think my character has exhausted her run. I am content with my two seconds of fame.” Talking about her future projects, Anita said, “I got offers for some outside shoots, but right now I am not ready to travel. I am still a little paranoid.” She further said that the floor test is expected to happen from October as they are hoping that situation might return to normalcy. “Hopefully, I’ll have clarity about my projects by then,” asserted the actress. Also Read - Anita Hassanandani recreates classic DDLJ scene with a foodie twist; says, 'No need TikTok' — watch videoShe also revealed that she has done a film with Tusshar Kapoor before lockdown.“I am not sure when they are planning to release it now, but it was amazing working with Tusshar again. Any association with Ekta is something I look forward to. They are like family to me,” concluded Anita Hassanandani."
Web Desk,Throwback Thursday: When birthday girl Sangeeta Bijlani won several hearts with her sensuous dance in Gali Gali Mein Phirta Hai,2020-07-09,"It's Sangeeta Bijlani's birthday today. The actress is turning fabulous 60 and we cannot believe it. She still looks as beautiful as she did, when she was, don't know, maybe 5 years ago when she was 20? On her special day today, we would like to give her a tribute with one of her iconic songs, Gali Gali Mein Phirta Hai from Tridev. Also Read - Sangeeta Bijlani's cake-cutting with salon staff in PPE suits is going VIRAL — watch videoIn the song, the actress can be seen grooving to one of the iconic hit, Gali Gali Mein Phirta Hai by Kalyan Ji Anand Ji. The song was sung by Manhar Udhas and Alka Yagnik and featured Jackie Shroff opposite Sangeeta. Their chemistry and the whole song bring rush of memories. Also Read - PICS: Salman Khan's bash for Sangeeta Bijlani was a cosy affairGroove with Sangeeta on Gali Gali Mein Phirta Hai and send in wishes for the actress on her birthday today. Also Read - Insta-stalker Alert: Birthday girl Sangeeta Bijlani’s workout videos will inspire you to join the gym ASAP!Have a great one, Sangeeta."
Web Desk,Charu Asopa’s cryptic post about 'Being broken' hints at her troubled marriage with Rajeev Sen?,2020-07-09,"Television actress Charu Asopa got married to Sushmita Sen’s brother Rajeev Sen last year in Goa. She shared a cryptic message about being broken on Instagram which raised questions about her marriage. Her post read, “Boht hanste ho, toote ho kya (You laugh a lot, are you broken). After this post, a user wrote, “Praying everything gets back to normal in your personal life... you deserve happiness…,” while another asked, “Mam is everything okay btw you n Rajeev sir??” Also Read - Karan Patel, Bigg Boss 14, Charu Asopa — meet the TV newsmakers of the weekView this post on Instagram ? A post shared by Charu Asopa (@asopacharu) on Jul 6, 2020 at 12:11pm PDTIn June when news of trouble brewing between the couple had started, a source had told Bombay Times, “Charu and Rajeev had serious compatibility issues right from the beginning. Things finally came to a head and Rajeev left for Delhi. The two have not been in touch since then. While Charu has dropped his surname on social media, he has blocked her from all channels of communication."" Also Read - Sushmita Sen's brother Rajeev Sen REACTS to rumours of split with wife, Charu Asopa, says, 'I’m in a very happy zone'Charu Asopa, who reportedly changed her name to Charu Sen the next day after her marriage, recently dropped her husband's surname from her name. However, Rajeev rubbished the speculations about their troubled life. He told SpotBoyE, “Just because I am in Delhi for my work, people are thinking that we have had a fight and are no more together - what a funny world we live in.” Also Read - Charu Asopa and Rajeev Sen delete their pictures from social mediaCharu Asopa made her acting debut with Zee TV's popular show Agle Janam Mohe Bitiya Hi Kiyo, has been a part of the entertainment industry for more than ten years now. She has been a part of shows like Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai, Baal Veer, Bade Acche Lagthe Hai, among others.Charu and Rajeev's wedding was a private affair attended by a few guests. They got married as per Rajasthani and Bengali rituals in Goa. The wedding was a three-day affair with ceremonies like Haldi, Sangeet, among others."
Web Desk,Sushant Singh Rajput suicide: Bihar court dismisses plea of registering case against Bollywood celebs,2020-07-08,"A Bihar court on Wednesday dismissed a petition seeking registration of cases against Bollywood bigwigs like Salman Khan, Ekta Kapoor, Sanjay Leela Bhansali and Karan Johar for allegedly abetting actor Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide, citing jurisdictional limitations. Also Read - Sushant Singh Rajput suicide: 'Don't close the topic,' says Yuvika Chaudhary as she demands justice for the actorChief Judicial Magistrate of Muzaffarpur Mukesh Kumar dismissed the petition filed by local advocate Sudhir Kumar Ojha, pointing out that the matter lay outside the court's jurisdiction. Also Read - Karan Patel takes a dig at Kangana Ranaut's nepotism tirade, asks, 'Why didn't she cast Sushant in her film?’In the petition filed barely three days after the 34 years old actor was found hanging from the ceiling of his Mumbai residence on June 14, Ojha had also named among ""witnesses"" Bollywood stormy petrel Kangana Ranaut who came out with a couple of angry messages blaming nepotism and favouritism in the film industry for the tragedy. Also Read - Trending Tunes: Sushant Singh Rajput's Khairiyat is back on the chartA serial litigant, who has in the recent past come up with petitions against the top film and political personalities and even foreign heads of states, few of which went beyond the admission stage, Ojha remained unfazed by the CJMs order.""I will challenge the CJMs decision before the district court. Bihar is in pain over the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. We must act to bring those, who drove a jovial young man like him to take such an extreme step, to justice"", he told reporters.Quite a few film personalities, especially those from Bihar, have expressed apprehensions about foul play in the Patna-born actor's death and sought a CBI inquiry.These include Shekhar Suman and singer-turned- politician and BJP MP Manoj Tiwari."
Web Desk,"Trending Entertainment News Today – Saumya Tandon's personal hair dresser tests POSITIVE, Bechara, Hrithik all set to travel back in time",2020-07-08,"It’s mid-week, and we are here with our trending entertainment news. Hrithik Roshan, Johnny Depp, Saumya Tandon, Prabhas, Title, Pooja Hegde, and others are a part of our top entertainment news today. So read on to know more about today’s newsmakers. Also Read - Bhabiji Ghar Par Hain actress Saumya Tandon's personal hair dresser tests POSITIVE for COVID-19; actress asked not to resume shootHere are the entertainment newsmakers:Hrithik all set to travel back in timeKrissh is the most loved home-grown superhero film of India. The last movie came out in 2013. Now, Hrithik Roshan and his dad, Rakesh Roshan are ready to start work on the fourth film of the franchise. Last year, Roshan senior was battling throat cancer but it seems he has developed a good script in this lockdown. As per a report in Mid-Day, in the fourth film, India's own superhero will travel back in time to bring back his scientist father, Rohit Mehra and the beloved Jadoo. This is like a double treat for all fans. Also Read - Inflated electricity bills spark off memes with both Bollywood and Hollywood tadkaRead the full story here: Krrish 4: Hrithik Roshan all set to travel back in time in the fourth film Also Read - After Taapsee Pannu, Neha Dhupia, Pulkit Samrat and 9 more celebs raise voice against inflated electricity billsSaumya Tandon's personal hair dresser tests POSITIVEWe are in the Unlock 1.0 phase and hence the restrictions have been eased a bit. The shoots of our favourite television shows have begun again. However, the number of coronavirus patients is increasing day by day. The production team of all the shows has been taking care and all the necessary measures have been taken. Each and every person entering the sets have been tested properly and social distancing has been maintained. But we are still hearing of a few cases from the sets of a few shows. Now, as per reports in Tellychakkar, Bhabiji Ghar Par Hain actress Saumya Tandon's personal hairdresser on the set has been tested positive for COVID-19 and has been put under quarantine. The reports mention that the actress has also been asked to take a break and not shoot for the show for a few days as the makers want her to be safe. The producer of the show also personally visited the set and ensured that safety measures are being followed.Read the full story here: Bhabiji Ghar Par Hain actress Saumya Tandon's personal hair dresser tests POSITIVE for COVID-19; actress asked not to resume shootJohnny Depp throws a wine bottle in angerA video has emerged in the Johnny Depp-Amber Heard case. As per a Daily Mail report, Johnny Depp is seen throwing a wine bottle to the floor in a 'drunken rage' at Amber Heard. The video also shows him cussing Amber and slamming the cupboard doors of the kitchen cabinet. He is heard shouting 'motherf*****' in the video. The report further adds that Johnny Depp is promising to show Amber ‘What crazy is’. Reportedly, as the video proceeded towards the end, the actor notices the camera and grabs the device, which was placed at the kitchen counter.Read the full story here: Johnny Depp-Amber Heard case: An enraged Johnny throws a wine bottle in an unseen video presented to High CourtTITLE FIRST LOOK to be revealed on July 10Prabhas fans it is time to celebrate! The team has taken to social media to reveal that the title and first look of Prabhas' 20th film will be unveiled on July 10 at ten am. This is indeed great news. We have heard that the film is titled Jaan but we will get complete clarity on that day. After heavy duty movies like the Baahubali series and Saaho, Prabhas is back with a period romance. The film has been shot in many European countries. Fans cannot contain their excitement on social media at this announcement. In fact, the handsome hunk flew back to Hyderabad just before the lockdown. He was shooting in GeorgiaRead the full story here: CONFIRMED! Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's film TITLE and FIRST LOOK to be revealed on July 10 at 10 amPorus actress Sameksha Singh ties the knotSameksha Singh is known for her performances in television shows like Porus, Tantra, and Zaara has tied the knot with Singapore-based singer and industrialist beau Shael Oswal. The couple got married on July 3, 2020. Sameksha Singh revealed the same to the Times Of India. She also hinted at not being seen in front of the camera anymore. She had gone to Singapore in February to shoot for Shael’s song Tere Naal and have been stuck there since then. Sameksha spoke about how she wishes to live post marriage. She said, ""I came to Singapore in February 2020 for the shoot of another song with him, titled ‘Tere Naal’, and bas uske naal hi reh gayi (and just stayed besides him). I have no plans of returning to Mumbai now and have said goodbye to the industry. I will get into scriptwriting, direction and production, and want to revive the production house set up by my father-in-law.""Read the full story here: Porus actress Sameksha Singh ties the knot with beau Shael Oswal in Singapore"
Web Desk,Veteran actor and comedian Jagdeep passes away at 81,2020-07-08,"These are such sad times that we are living in. Today, we lost yet another gem of an actor and a legendary comedian Jagdeep. He was born Syed Ishtiaq Ahmed Jafri, but adopted a stage name Jagdeep and made his mark as a comedian in the Hindi Film industry. He was 81 when he breathed his last on Wednesday. The actor was known for his roles Soorma Bhopali in Sholay, Chandu alias James Bond in Agent Vinod, Macchar Singh in Purana Mandir, Bankelal Bhopali in Andaaz Apna Apna to name a few. Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan’s grandson, Agastya Nanda, to enter Bollywood?As per a report in IndiaToday, the actor passed away at his residence at 8:40 PM. The report further stated that he had some age-related ailments. However, the cause of his demise is yet unknown. The report also said that he would be laid to rest at Shia Kabristan in Mumbai tomorrow. An official statement is yet to be released by the actor's family. He is survived by his sons Jaaved Jaafrey and Naved Jaafrey. He also has a daughter, Muskaan from his other marriage. His grandson, Meezaan made his Bollywood debut with Malaal last year. Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – RIP Jagdeep, Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?Ajay Devgn took to his Twitter handle to mourn his loss. ""Heard the sad news of Jagdeep Saab’s demise. Always enjoyed watching him on screen. He brought so much joy to the audience. My deepest condolences to Jaaved and all members of the family. Prayers for Jagdeep Saab’s,"" the actor tweeted out. Also Read - RIP Jagdeep: 'My father entertained you all for 70 long years, please do pray for him,' says Jaaved Jaafrey on father's demiseHeard the sad news of Jagdeep Saab’s demise. Always enjoyed watching him on screen. He brought so much joy to the audience. My deepest condolences to Jaaved and all members of the family. Prayers for Jagdeep Saab’s soul? — Ajay Devgn (@ajaydevgn) July 8, 2020Talking about the actor, in his career spanning about six decades he featured in some of the major films. His sheer comic timing and dialogue delivery would never fail to make people laugh. His presence itself had that natural comic flair that would get anyone smiling as soon as he graced the screen.Rest in peace, Jagdeep. There can never be another Soorma Bhopali."
Web Desk,'HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI' trends on Twitter as Ajay Devgan's fans dig up old tweets of the actress,2020-07-08,"A couple of days ago, Prachi Desai had schooled Ajay Devgn on Twitter when the actor had not tagged her and the rest of the cast of Bol Bachchan while celebrating 8 years of its release. It had created quite a stir on social media as well. She had commented on his post saying, ""Hey @ajaydevgn looks like you forgot to mention the rest of us aka #Asin @Krushna_KAS @apshaha #Asrani ji #NeerajVohra ji #JeetuVerma, yours truly & everyone involved in making this baller of a film #8YearsOfBolBachchan."" Now, days after her tweet, fans of Ajay Devgn have dug up her old tweets where she had not tagged Ajay and Asin in her post whole celebrating two years of Bol Bachchan's release. Also Read - WTF Wednesday: Prachi Desai’s reaction on Ajay Devgn’s lack of acknowledgment again proves that insiders will be insidersFans of Ajay Devgn have slammed Prachi Desai and have begun a trend on Twitter saying, ""HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI."" People are bashing the actress like crazy and questioning her guts to tweet this out and even calling her a flop actress. Have a look at the tweets here: Also Read - Prachi Desai schools Ajay Devgn after he tags only Abhishek Bachchan in his post remembering the blockbuster Bol BachchanHer Only Two Successful Movies are with Ajaydevgn , She Must be Thakful to him But She is targeting him Just for the sake of attention ! Shameles @ItsPrachiDesai HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI pic.twitter.com/xlQQKCae1O — ʟᴏɴᴇʀ ᴡᴏʟꜰ (@ADianSagar) July 8, 2020Why Opportunist actress @ItsPrachiDesai was Silent When all Lead artists of the film Ek Villain did not tagged her. HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI pic.twitter.com/ODjiLUfhAy — N I T I N (@SuperADianNJ) July 8, 2020pehle mujhe aap bohot pasand thi lekin uss tweet ke baadI Hate YouHYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI — Soreb Tyagi(Aj and MSD fan) (@msd_adian_soreb) July 8, 2020HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI At that time she didn't remember to Tag Asin and Krushna pic.twitter.com/G2dbIIkaao — Dope Shope Raja (@DNAreboot) July 8, 2020Forget #Nepometer, the way many of Bollywood celebs who are pretending to be against nepotism and now showing (fake) support for outsider, we definitely do need a #Hypocrisymeter for sure! HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI — N I T I N (@SuperADianNJ) July 8, 2020Bots This is for you, Now stop barking here Tit for tat HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI pic.twitter.com/JaJsnTNXtW — ʟᴏɴᴇʀ ᴡᴏʟꜰ (@ADianSagar) July 8, 2020Flop and loser Actrees like @ItsPrachiDesai Sahil khan are targeting Big Actors like #AjayDevgn, #SalmanKhan, #AamirKhan Unnecessarily for some attention and limelight. They Can't act on Screen, but they can act better offscreen HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI — N I T I N (@SuperADianNJ) July 8, 2020First learn to give respect to your seniors and respected superstar @ajaydevgn sir. Then demand your worthless credit @ItsPrachiDesaiHYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI — nazia majid (@naziamajid1) July 8, 2020After having no takers in bollywood, The most fake attention seeker actress @ItsPrachiDesai used ajay sir name for publicity.HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI — Sarang #ADian (@Fullofthought2) July 8, 2020Bloody ungrateful flop actress. HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI@ItsPrachiDesai ? — Sarika Gupta (@SarikaGupta1980) July 8, 2020BTW you didn't mention @ajaydevgn in this tweet while celebrating 2 yrs of #bolbachchan !Bas mauke pe chauka marna aata hai.HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI https://t.co/4ylRqo9d3h — Prince Raj Singh (@ShivaayTweets) July 8, 2020How To take The advantage Of Current Situation to Get In Notice and Famous ...HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI:-- Koi inse Sikhe ? pic.twitter.com/foJuq8VsRH — S H I V A M (@Iforyoushivam) July 8, 2020Attention seeker bann na zaruri thha kya? HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI — Shiva (@TeraBaapAayaaaa) July 8, 2020Meanwhile, recently, Abhishek Bachchan said on a chat show, ""I remember Rohit and Ajay after about a week into the shoot, we were shooting in Jaipur, they said, ‘Look we need to talk,’ because we weren't getting that one scene. And I panicked, I said, ‘Oh god, these guys are going to replace me in the film,’ because I wasn't able to get it. You could see at some point of time there was a bit of polite frustration creeping in on the unit's side."" Also Read - Throwback Thursday: When Abhishek Bachchan feared Ajay Devgn and Rohit Shetty would replace him in Bol Bachchan""That made so much sense to me and I thought I now have to lean completely on Rohit and I did it. It doesn't come naturally to me to be that hyper but I did it and it worked brilliantly. I went to Rohit and said, ""Thank you, I needed that one cattle prod to wake up."" he had added."
Web Desk,"RIP Sushant Singh Rajput: 'I wish he had spoken up,' says Apurva Asrani as he opens up on his struggles in the industry",2020-07-08,"Sushant Singh Rajput's demise has brought out the ugliest face of the industry out in open again. We are talking about bullying, nepotism, camp-ism, lobbying that exists in the industry, or to say on which a part of the industry works. A lot of celebs have opened up on their struggles of surviving in the industry. Apurva Asrani, film writer and editor opened up on his struggle and wished that the late television and Hindi film actor would have spoken up about his struggles as well. Also Read - Sushant Singh Rajput suicide: 'Don't close the topic,' says Yuvika Chaudhary as she demands justice for the actorIn a blog written by Apurva Asrani, the writer wrote about his initial days of struggle and the ugly side of the industry. ""In my 20’s (I had cut Satya before I turned 19), directors called me to hotels for narrations. Once, as I waited in the lobby for a director, I got a message that the meeting has moved to his room. There the director was alone, in his bath gown, displaying an unsavoury view of his privates. I ran. Then once, I got invited to a journalist’s birthday party, only to discover that besides his boyfriend, I was the only guest invited. Like vultures they circled me, till I beat a hasty retreat."" Also Read - Karan Patel takes a dig at Kangana Ranaut's nepotism tirade, asks, 'Why didn't she cast Sushant in her film?’He thanked Manoj Bajpayee for being his anchor and supporting him throughout his career. ""Fortunately, some producers did reach out to me and offered me work. One of them was Zoya Akhtar, who breathed hope into me by giving me Made In Heaven to edit. Also, Manoj Bajpayee, the lead actor of both Satya and Aligarh, stood by me. He publicly endorsed my work on both those seminal films when it mattered the most. Yet the stress was too much, and I woke up one morning to realise that half my face was paralysed. I couldn’t shut one eye, my speech was impaired and I looked like a freak. I learned that I had a nervous condition called Bells Palsy and it came with severe vertigo and vomiting. I was too sick to edit the climax episodes of MIH, and someone replaced me to finish the series. It was a very painful period. I cried myself to sleep on most nights and stopped getting out of the house. I felt humiliated, let down by my ilk, and was absolutely shattered,"" he wrote. Also Read - Trending Tunes: Sushant Singh Rajput's Khairiyat is back on the chartApurva also revealed that none reached out to help him saying, ""I am not surprised to see that I am being ostracised by many of my industry peers for taking on this fight and naming names. Besides Manoj Bajpayee (thank god for him!), not one industry person has reached out (so far), even privately, to say that they are with me. Soon, someone will try to discredit me with some slander on a portal or a tabloid. But that doesn’t scare me, I’ve seen these games played before.""Talking about blind items, Apurva questioned everyone why can't they talk about all those rubbish things written in the stories about Sushant. ""I am among the few from the film industry that continues to question why Sushant Singh Rajput was bullied in the period leading to his death. Some of my friends have come to the conclusion that Sushant was depressed, couldn’t handle the stress that came with the movie industry, and therefore took his own life. Firstly, I don’t know how they have diagnosed Sushant’s condition whilst sitting on twitter. How do we know what kind of depression Sushant suffered from? We have no records of his mental health history. What we do have are about 30 blind pieces in the public domain, all that carried some appalling, destructive ideas about him. Why are we so afraid to allow a discussion on this?""Lastly, he wished Sushant had opened up on his struggles. ""Watch Sushant in so many of those film promotion videos, he is pretty much ignored by the fraternity. I wish he had spoken up. But he may have taken the advice of ‘well wishers’ who easily dispense advice like, ‘don’t talk, let your success do the talking’. So the boy marched on."""
Web Desk,"Irrfan Khan's son Babil SLAMS Bollywood, says, 'My father was defeated at the box office by hunks with six pack abs'",2020-07-08,"Late actor Irrfan Khan's son Babil has taken a dig at Bollywood's ""blatant sexism and same-old conventional representations of patriarchy"". Babil shared that Irrfan had once told him that Bollywood is seldom respected in world cinema. Babil spoke his mind in an Instagram post on Wednesday afternoon. He wrote: ""You know one of the most important things my father taught me as a student of cinema? Before I went to film school, he warned me that I'll have to prove my self as Bollywood is seldom respected in world cinema and at these moments I must inform about the indian cinema that's beyond our controlled Bollywood."" Sharing how his father's warning came true, Babil wrote: ""Unfortunately, it did happen. Bollywood was not respected, no awareness of 60's - 90's Indian cinema or credibility of opinion. There was literally one single lecture in the world cinema segment about Indian cinema called 'Bollywood and Beyond', that too gone through in a class full of chuckles. it was tough to even get a sensible conversation about the real Indian cinema of Satyajit Ray and K. Asif going."" Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – RIP Jagdeep, Hina Khan and Sidharth Shukla to team up?Taking a dig at the taste of the Indian audience which ""refuses to evolve"" and the box-office dependent Bollywood cinema, he further shared: ""You know why that is? Because we, as the Indian audience, refused to evolve."" ""My father gave his life trying to elevate the art of acting in the adverse conditions of noughties Bollywood and alas, for almost all of his journey, was defeated in the box office by hunks with six pack abs delivering theatrical one-liners and defying the laws of physics and reality, photoshopped item songs, just blatant sexism and same-old conventional representations of patriarchy (and you must understand, to be defeated at the box office means that majority of the investment in Bollywood would be going to the winners, engulfing us in a vicious circle)."" ""Because we as an audience wanted that, we enjoyed it, all we sought was entertainment and safety of thought, so afraid to have our delicate illusion of reality shattered, so unaccepting of any shift in perception. All effort to explore the potential of cinema and its implications on humanity and existentialism was at best kept by the sidelines."" Babil feels the much-needed change has just started to happen and it should be encouraged. Also Read - When Tom Hanks ‘hated’ his Inferno co-star Irrfan Khan and wanted to copy him""Now there is a change, a new fragrance in the wind. A new youth, searching for a new meaning. We must stand our ground, not let this thirst for a deeper meaning be repressed again. A strange feeling beset when Kalki (Koechlin) was trolled for looking like a boy when she cut her hair short, that is pure abolishment of potential."" ""(Although I resent that Sushant's demise has now become a fluster of political debates, but if a positive change is manifesting, in the way of the Taoist, we embrace it),"" he concluded. Also Read - Actress Tillotama Shome gets the weirdest marriage proposal; guy offers to take virginity and brain test"
Web Desk,"This throwback picture of Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Deepika Padukone will remind you of the good old days",2020-07-08,"The coronavirus pandemic has hit Bollywood hard. In this lockdown period, we have had only bad news. From no films releasing in Bollywood to the deaths of some fabulous talents, it has been bleak and gloomy. Even on the average day, we do not get to see party pictures as we did earlier. A throwback picture of a party at Ranbir Kapoor's place is going place. In the picture, we can see Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Deepika Padukone - Ranveer Singh, Ranbir Kapoor, Alia and Karan Johar. It should be noted that Ranbir Kapoor's new home was done up by Gauri Khan. Also Read - Video of the Week: Anita Hassanandani-Rohit Reddy's modern twist to Shah Rukh Khan-Kajol's iconic DDLJ scene is way too hilariousIn the picture, we can see that Alia Bhatt is sitting in Shah Rukh Khan's lap. Both have worked together in Dear Zindagi. Aamir Khan and Karan Johar are also in the same row. Alia Bhatt and her mentor Alia Bhatt are wearing bright red oversized tees. It was a simple house party and no one bothered much about dressing up. Ranbir Kapoor has his hand over Deepika Padukone. The former lovers dated for a number of years before they split due to various reasons. Deepika Padukone and Ranbir Kapoor continue to remain good friends. He is also pally with Ranveer Singh. Also Read - Anita Hassanandani recreates classic DDLJ scene with a foodie twist; says, 'No need TikTok' — watch videoOn the professional front, Alia Bhatt will soon start work on Gangubai Kathaiwadi while Shah Rukh Khan is all set for Rajkumar Hirani's social immigration drama that will be shot in Punjab and Canada. Ranbir Kapoor and Alia Bhatt, who are currently in a relationship have a big film, Brahmastra releasing this year. It is going to come in Christmas. The young superstar will also be seen in Shamshera with Vaani Kapoor and Ronit Roy. Also Read - Shah Rukh Khan’s next with Rajkumar Hirani to be a social comedy set in Punjab and Canada?Aamir Khan has finished a large part of the shoot of Laal Singh Chadha. The film is also supposed to come in Christmas."
Web Desk,"'If she spends too much time at home, she'd want me to get married,' Abhimanyu Dassani on mother Bhagyashree's comeback",2020-07-08,"Abhimanyu Dassani made his Bollywood debut with Mard Ko Dard Nahi Hota and would soon be seen in Nikamma. The actor is the son of actress Bhagyashree who won several hearts with her portrayal of Suman in 1989's Maine Pyar Kiya. The actress had been missing from the silver screen for years now and would soon make her comeback with Kangana Ranaut starrer Thalaivi. The actor recently opened up on his mother's comeback in an interview. Also Read - Throwback Thursday: Bhagyashree WARNED Salman Khan to stay away from her on the sets of Maine Pyar KiyaAbhimanyu Dassani joked about his mother's comeback saying that if she spent any more time at home, she would ask him to get married. ""She is good at what she does and this is the time when talent is getting noticed. You can look like me and still get lead roles. Also, if she spends too much time at home, she’d want me to get married,"" Abhimanyu told Mumbai Mirror. Also Read - Abhimanyu Dassani reveals an unknown trivia about Maine Pyar Kiya; says, 'Sooraj Barjatya had pursued my mother, Bhagyashree, for over a month' [Exclusive]Abhimanyu also opened up on that the mother-son duo bonded over food and cooking during the lockdown. ""I cook once every two days, and mom really enjoys it. She doesn’t tell me to cook, but just says, ‘I want to eat pasta today: and that is my cue,"" he told the portal. Also Read - 'Abhimanyu Dassani stood in lines and gave auditions without ever revealing who he is,' DISCLOSES mom BhagyashreeMeanwhile, earlier in an interview with Pinkvilla, Bhagyashree had opened up on quitting films for her son. When asked if it was a tough decision, she said, ""Yes, and no. A tough call because by then I had realised that I do enjoy acting and I was like I wish I had the possibility of managing both. But no, because he (son) just took over my life. My entire focus and happiness were having him with me. At that point, it was not a tough choice. All that I wanted to do was spend time with him.""How adorable is their bond!"
Web Desk,"Karan Patel REVEALS he was approached for Naagin 5, but Ekta Kapoor decided to cast him as Mr Bajaj",2020-07-08,"Mr. Bajaj has finally begun shooting for Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2. It is Karan Patel who will be playing Mr. Bajaj after Karan Singh Grover left. However, Karan Patel recently in a chat with Pinkvilla revealed that he was also approached for Naagin 5. He said, ""I was approached. Yes, but then Ekta decided that let’s not waste him here, as she was considering me for Mr Bajaj. Ek taraf Bajaj aur dusri taraf dasega toh kaise lagega and that’s when she decided to not do it."" Ekta Kapoor's Naagin 5 also has been the most talked about show. Fans are eagerly waiting for the new season and want to know who would play the female and the male lead this time. Karan Patel's name had been taken earlier who might be a part of Naagin 5. Also Read - Khatron Ke Khiladi 10, 11 July 2020 written update: Dharmesh becomes the first finalist; Tejasswi Prakash faints during the ticket to finale stuntEarlier, in an interview with Pinkvilla, the actor revealed that he’s never met Parth Samthaan or Erica Fernandes, who are acting in the show. He said, “I have never met them. Never even interacted with them. We have never crossed paths. I must have seen them around near the studio, but we never interacted much. In fact, I don’t know anyone on the set. For me, it will be like going to a new batch after a vacation.” Talking about his first reaction when he was offered the show, he said, “When I was approached, I was like Mr Bajaj is an iconic and challenging character. Earlier, Ronit Roy did it and then Karan did a good job. So, before saying yes I deliberated if I could shoulder the responsibility and then I took a day or two and then decided to give it a try.” Also Read - Khatron Ke Khiladi 10: 'Picture abhi baaki hai,' Karan Patel opens up on the finale of the season"
Web Desk,Anil Kapoor gives fitness motivation; Hrithik Roshan and Shilpa Shetty are in awe — view post,2020-07-08,"Sixty-plus Bollywood veteran Anil Kapoor's fitness has left superstar Hrithik Roshan envious. Also Read - Dil Bechara trailer: Kriti Sanon, Anil Kapoor, Rakul Preet, Farhan Akhtar heap praise on Sushant Singh Rajput's last filmOn Wednesday, Anil posted glimpses of his workout session at home, and Hrithik felt the senior actor's effort was too impressive. Also Read - Here's why Shah Rukh Khan rejected the Oscar-winning film Slumdog Millionaire""I have never been fitter than I am today... stronger in mind, stronger in body,"" Anil wrote along with the pictures, in which he is seen flexing his muscles. Also Read - #37YearsOfWoh7Din: Anil Kapoor goes down memory lane, shares priceless picturesHis post prompted a lot of reactions. Hrithik Roshan wrote: ""Bas, baaki sab khatam"", while Shilpa Shetty reacted with a simple ""Uff"".Recently, Anil shared that labels do not matter to him as he believes in his talent.Anil Kapoor Hrithik Roshan Shilpa Shetty InstagramHe spoke about this while going down memory lane, while remembering his first film as a solo hero, ""Woh 7 Din"", which released 37 years ago on June 23, 1983.""Got so involved in my work today as usual as I always look forward and not at the past .. but still, there are some milestones in your life you should not forget...#37YearsOfWoh7Din, 37 years of being a star actor, always been tradeable, accessible, working and making choices... good...bad...great...sometimes even if they might not have seemed right at the time but have always stood the test of time,"" he wrote.""Started as an actor, become a star...super star according to the trade....then a flop star...rose as a star again...international star...supporting actor....evergreen star and the list goes on... labels never really mattered to me nor did I ever take them seriously...""""I have always been aware of my talent and caliber...just wanted to feed my love and hunger for work...37 years later it's still the same and hopefully by the grace of almighty will continue to remain the same....""""A Big Thank You to all my fans, filmmakers, co-actors & crews that I have worked with.... and of course my family for being my backbone....,"" Anil Kapoor wrote on Instagram.On the work front, Anil Kapoor will next be seen in Anees Bazmee's ""Bhool Bhulaiyaa 2"", starring Kartik Aaryan, Kiara Advani and Tabu. The film is a follow-up to Priyadarshan's 2007 horror comedy ""Bhool Bhulaiyaa"" that starred Akshay Kumar and Vidya Balan."
Web Desk,Porus actress Sameksha Singh ties the knot with beau Shael Oswal in Singapore,2020-07-08,"Sameksha Singh is known for her performances in television shows like Porus, Tantra, and Zaara has tied the knot with Singapore-based singer and industrialist beau Shael Oswal. The couple got married on July 3, 2020. Sameksha Singh revealed the same to the Times Of India. She also hinted at not being seen in front of the camera anymore. She had gone to Singapore in February to shoot for Shael’s song Tere Naal and have been stuck there since then. Sameksha spoke about how she wishes to live post marriage. She said, ""I came to Singapore in February 2020 for the shoot of another song with him, titled ‘Tere Naal’, and bas uske naal hi reh gayi (and just stayed besides him). I have no plans of returning to Mumbai now and have said goodbye to the industry. I will get into scriptwriting, direction and production, and want to revive the production house set up by my father-in-law."" Also Read - Porus actress Sameksha Singh does NOT want do a daily soap - read exclusive interviewSameksha also revealed why they chose to get married on July 3. She revealed, ""That date is auspicious for us, as it marks the birth anniversary of Shael’s father, who passed away in 2016. We opted for a simple ceremony at a local gurudwara (in Singapore), which was attended virtually by our families."" Sameksha Singh and Shael Oswal had first worked together on the song Makhmalii Pyaar, which was sung by Shael and featured Sameksha in the music video. The Porus actress said, ""He had approached me for the song after seeing my photographs. While he says that he fell in love with me almost instantly, I had no feelings for him. During the course of the song, however, we got talking and grew closer. He is the biggest blessing in my life."" Also Read - Mansi Srivastava hits back at Mohit Abrol's claims of cheating: He can paint me in whatever colour he wantsView this post on Instagram A post shared by Sameksha (@iamsameksha) on Jul 6, 2020 at 10:09am PDTSameksha Singh has a 10-year-old son from a previous marriage while Shael Oswal has two teenage children with his ex-wife. Also Read - WTF Wednesday! The curious case of Mohit Abrol's 'hacked' Instagram account..."
Web Desk,Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Li’l Champs: Javed Ali and Himesh Reshammiya step in for Udit Narayan and Kumar Sanu,2020-07-08,"The Government of Maharashtra has allowed channels and producers to begin shoots for TV shows albiet with social distancing measures and precautions in place. Zee TV's Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Li'l Champs will also resume shoot. However, there is a major change in the judges' panel. Udit Narayan and Kumar Sanu have exited the show. Only Alka Yagnik will stay on from the original trio. Himesh Reshammiya and Javed Ali will be joining them. A source told Indian Express, ""As Maharashtra was battling with coronavirus, the show was abruptly brought to a halt in March. If not, the season would have seen its finale now. Since the schedule went for a toss, Udit and Kumar ji informed the makers that they will not be able to continue any further. Both Himesh and Javed have had a long association with Sa Re Ga Ma Pa, and they instantly said yes when approached."" Also Read - Sukhwinder Singh heartbroken after Wajid Khan's demise, feels sad that 'God is taking away such special talents' [EXCLUSIVE]This is the eighth season of Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Li'l Champs, which is hosted by Maniesh Paul. The season began from February 29. The shoots will resume from July 10. Maniesh Paul told IANS, ""I am immensely excited to resume the shoot after 100 days of staying indoors and I'm looking forward to shoot a fun-filled episode after such a long time. Keeping in mind the current scenario we are going to maintain social distancing on the sets too and take all the required precautions as we resume shooting."" Also Read - Himesh Reshammiya composes song for wife Sonia on 2nd anniversaryIn a statement, Himesh Reshammiya said, ""I am looking forward to a fresh start with the current season and hope we receive a tremendous response. We have an array of exceptionally talented young singers from across the country who have proven themselves to be great performers with their incredible passion and skill for music, so am sure this season will see some fantastic acts."" The new episodes will start airing from July 18, 2020. Also Read - Shannon K, Kumar Sanu's daughter, on choosing to be a singer in the US over Bollywood: I would have always been compared with my dad [Exclusive](With inputs from IANS)"
Web Desk,"Kamaal R Khan hits out at Hansal Mehta, says, 'What Hansal or anybody else can snatch from me?'",2020-07-08,"After the demise of Sushant Singh Rajput, people have slammed Bollywood for its biased behaviour towards outsiders. Various film critics have come under scrutiny. Komal Nahta, Kamaal R Khan and Rajeev Masand are facing a lot of flak. Trade analyst and critic Kamaal R Khan have been severely criticized for his defamatory tweets on late Sushant Singh Rajput. Over the years, he has said stuff like he is unprofessional and how producers could not bank on him. He also said that major production houses had banned him of late. After saying all this, he started posting stuff on how he was upset at the tragic demise of the young actor. Many have called him a turncoat and slammed him badly. Hansal Mehta, Milap Zaveri and Manoj Bajpayee have called him out. Also Read - Bigg Boss 14: Kamaal R Khan wants Ranveer Singh as the host instead of Salman Khan; fans say, 'Rohit Shetty chalega'You are trying to escape your possible investigation and implication in the ongoing investigation on Sushant's death. These are a few examples of the mental harassment you put people through. I am tagging @MumbaiPolice to investigate you also. Am sending videos directly to them. https://t.co/Gkj2eXLtfm pic.twitter.com/RbGpYnfWaI — Hansal Mehta (@mehtahansal) July 4, 2020Kamaal R Khan pointed out to Hansal Mehta that he too is an outsider and has come up from a humble background. He has said that someone like Hansal cannot snatch away what he has made for himself in his life. Kamaal R Khan has tweeted, ""I was born at a mud houses village n started working in farms at the age of 8yrs. I was sure dat one day I will die unknow like crore of other ppl. But today I m KRK with my own n without anybody’s help. So what Hansal or anybody else can snatch from me? I got more than I deserve."" Also Read - Hansal Mehta requests Amitabh Bachchan to unfollow Kamaal R Khan on social mediaI was born at a mud houses village n started working in farms at the age of 8yrs. I was sure dat one day I will die unknow like crore of other ppl. But today I m KRK with my own n without anybody’s help. So what Hansal or anybody else can snatch from me? I got more than I deserve — KRK (@kamaalrkhan) July 8, 2020In reply to this, Hansal Mehta tweeted, ""There is no intention to take anything away from you except to stop you from being mean or insulting to another talent. Express your opinion but do it responsibly is what I ask. Don't be hurtful. Disagree but don't disrespect. Be thankful for what the almighty has given you."" Also Read - #FakeKRKRealCulpritOfSushant: Sushant Singh Rajput's fans slam Kamaal R Khan for fake show of sympathyThere is no intention to take anything away from you except to stop you from being mean or insulting to another talent. Express your opinion but do it responsibly is what I ask. Don't be hurtful. Disagree but don't disrespect. Be thankful for what the almighty has given you. — Hansal Mehta (@mehtahansal) July 8, 2020A lot of people have also called out some famous journalists for nasty blind items targetted at the actor. Friends have revealed that he would be upset about the nasty pieces written on him without any verification of any sort."
Web Desk,Bhabiji Ghar Par Hain actress Saumya Tandon's personal hair dresser tests POSITIVE for COVID-19; actress asked not to resume shoot,2020-07-08,"We are in the Unlock 1.0 phase and hence the restrictions have been eased a bit. The shoots of our favourite television shows have begun again. However, the number of coronavirus patients is increasing day by day. The production team of all the shows has been taking care and all the necessary measures have been taken. Each and every person entering the sets have been tested properly and social distancing has been maintained. But we are still hearing of a few cases from the sets of a few shows. Now, as per reports in Tellychakkar, Bhabiji Ghar Par Hain actress Saumya Tandon's personal hairdresser on the set has been tested positive for COVID-19 and has been put under quarantine. The reports mention that the actress has also been asked to take a break and not shoot for the show for a few days as the makers want her to be safe. The producer of the show also personally visited the set and ensured that safety measures are being followed. Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – Saumya Tandon's personal hair dresser tests POSITIVE, Bechara, Hrithik all set to travel back in timeEarlier, in an interview with Pinkvilla, Saumya Tandon had revealed that she is scared to resume shooting. She said,"" Honestly, I am scared because we don't have a drug out there. Because for the last three months, we were all careful to not even touch anyone or talk to anyone and suddenly we will be put in a place where at least 30-35 people will be shooting. So, my first reaction was that I am scared and apprehensive. I hope that the producers and networks are making the right arrangements to secure the lives of everyone because nothing is more important than that. However, I am happy for those people who really need this work to keep going, like my hairdresser, makeup artist, they are happy with this development, so I am happy for them."" Also Read - Inflated electricity bills spark off memes with both Bollywood and Hollywood tadka"
Web Desk,"Bigg Boss 13's Paras Chhabra glad that Akanksha Puri's chats revealing she 'borrowed and not bought' shoes, get leaked",2020-07-08,"Bigg Boss 13 has ended but the controversies surrounding it are still doing rounds. Paras Chhabra had an ugly break up with Akanksha Puri while he was inside the house. They also had a lot of fights during Bigg Boss 13 and post the show ended. Paras Chhabra had blamed Akanksha for maligning his image by showing that she was taking care of all his necessities while he was in the house which included his shoes and outfits. Paras Chhabra had destroyed his very expensive shoes in the house for Shehnaaz Gill and later had received a new pair of the same brand of shoes again. Reports said that it was Akanksha Puri had sent him those. Akansha had also announced about the same on Instagram and wrote, ""For all u fans who had that "" Awwwwww"" moment when he sacrificed his yellow shoes.Finally another one is here on behalf of all those who have supported him in thick n thins in #bigbosss13.Happy new year #paras !!This time it's red hope you like it as much as yellow."" However, it was Paras who kept saying that she has not sent him those. They also had a fight overpayment of dues for Paras' stylist. Also Read - THIS is how Paras Chhabra will celebrate in his birthday with Mahira SharmaA stylist named Tasha accused Paras of not paying her for the services they provided during the show in terms of his styling and clothes. Akanksha used to pay while they were together but she stopped it post their breakup. Paras later paid all the dues and also returned the money to Akanksha said the reports. Now, Paras Chhabra's fans have leaked Akanksha Puri's chats with the shoe brand where is in discussion with a stylist to borrow a pair of shoes for him. An Instagram page has shared a screenshot of those chats. The caption read, ""Chats Screen gets out ! Was it well planned ro malgin @parasvchhabrra ???"" Paras Chhabra was asked about the same in a chat with Spotboye. He said,"" There were times I was maligned and kept saying it’s untrue, finally the truth has come out ."" Also Read - Karan Patel, Bigg Boss 14, Charu Asopa — meet the TV newsmakers of the weekBigg Boss 13 does not seem to end soon. Also Read - Akanksha Puri REACTS to Paras Chhabra's fans, says, 'I really don't want to keep any ties with him but he has to clear my dues'"
Web Desk,Johnny Depp-Amber Heard case: An enraged Johnny throws a wine bottle in an unseen video presented to High Court,2020-07-08,"A video has emerged in the Johnny Depp-Amber Heard case. As per a Daily Mail report, Johnny Depp is seen throwing a wine bottle to the floor in a 'drunken rage' at Amber Heard. The video also shows him cussing Amber and slamming the cupboard doors of the kitchen cabinet. He is heard shouting 'motherf*****' in the video. The report further adds that Johnny Depp is promising to show Amber ‘What crazy is’. Reportedly, as the video proceeded towards the end, the actor notices the camera and grabs the device, which was placed at the kitchen counter. Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today – Saumya Tandon's personal hair dresser tests POSITIVE, Bechara, Hrithik all set to travel back in timeIt is believed that Depp told the court he was 'having a moment' and was 'violent with some cupboards' but said that 'Ms Heard was not struck'. Also Read - ‘I was poisoning myself beyond belief,’ — When Johnny Depp revealed he began smoking at 12 and taking drugs as a kidAmber Heard and Johnny Depp were divorced in January 2017. A few months ago, in an audiotape obtained by dailymail.co.uk, Heard – who filed for divorce in May 2016 accusing Depp of beating her during their 18-month marriage – can be heard warning the latter about her violent behaviour. Also Read - Amber Heard admits hitting Johnny Depp in leaked audio conversationDepp said in a past interview, that he began smoking at the age of 12 and soon began drinking and using drugs. In 1997, he told Vanity Fair, “Oh, man, yeah. Johnny was unhappy then … It was a pretty dark time for me. I don’t know what was going on. Well, I was poisoning myself beyond belief. I’d eat that glass, man. There was a lot of liquor. A lot of liquor. I was pretty unhealthy.”In an interview to Boston Globe in 2008, he said, “I never wanted to be the guy people looked at. I felt I could only be myself when I was alone, that I turned into some kind of novelty. The only way I could get through that time was to drink.”In 2019, the actor was hit with a $350,000 suit from a law firm that claims he has not paid his bills."
Web Desk,From Chiranjeevi's war of words with Rajasekhar to Rajinikanth receiving death threats — 12 controversies that shook the South film industry,2020-07-08,"We are finally past the first half of 2020. TBH, it was a lot to deal with, but it feels like ages already. The entertainment industry was shut for almost a quarter of the year but that did not stop the celebs from making headlines every day. We spoke about controversies in Bollywood and TV industry, now it’s time to have a little recap of all the all that took place down in South in the past six months. Sit tight, it’s a long read… Also Read - #JusticeForJayarajAndBennicks: Suriya writes a long note seeking justice for the victimsChiranjeevi-Rajasekhar’s war of wordsMembers of Movie Artist’s Association had held an event in which Rajasekhar had interrupted Chiranjeevi saying that he has a lot of issues at home due to MAA. He narrated an old incident and said that they trample the efforts of people who do good work. This angered the megastar and he went on to say that he should not have come to the event if he didn’t like it. Rajasekhar’s wife then went on to apologise to the megastar and everyone present at the event said that her husband is like a kid and cannot hide his emotions. Also Read - THIS Kollywood superstar says he will produce Anirudh Ravichander's debut filmIT Raid at Rashamika Mandanna’s houseOn 16 January, IT officials raided Rashmika Mandanna’s house in Virajpet Taluka of Kodagu district. The actress was not aware of the same and was in Hyderabad for a shoot. It was reported that the actress would be interrogated by the IT officials for the same. Two days later, the IT officials found Rs 25 lakh unaccounted for at her house in Virajpet. Also Read - Happy birthday, SP Balasubrahmanyam! 5 songs from the music maestro that need to be revisited todayIT-officers question Thalapathy Vijay and Bigil producersThalapathy Vijay’s house was raided by the IT officials as well. He was questioned on the tax evasion case. The IT department raided AGS Cinemas in about 20 locations. AGS Cinemas have producer Thalapathy Vijay’s Bigil which crossed about Rs 300 crore worldwide. Anbu Chezhiyan’s house was raided too. He was the financer for Bigil. The IT department recovered about Rs 65 crore from the raid.Minsara Kanna producer accuses Parasite makers of plagiarismTamil producer PL Thenappan, who holds the rights of the 1999 Vijay-starrer Minsara Kanna had accused the makers of Parasite, the Korean film, of plagiarism. He had declared that he will sue them. ""On Monday or Tuesday, I will be filing a case with help from an international lawyer. They have taken the plot from my film. When they find out that some of our films have been inspired by their films, they file cases. Similarly, it is only fair for us to do the same,"" Thenappan told thenewsminute.com, adding that he would seek compensation from the producers of Parasite for copying the idea of his film.Indian 2 mishap killed 3 assistant directorsIn a freak accident, three assistant directors on the sets of Indian 2 lost their lives. A crane crash had killed three technicians, named, Madhu, Chandran and Krishna. The cast and crew, Kamal Haasan, Rakul Preet Singh and Kajal Aggarwal mourned the loss. Kamal Haasan had taken matter into his hands and even provided compensation of Rs 1 crore to the family to help them. Kamal Haasan was interrogated by the police for the same.Tamil actress Rekha revealed Kamal Haasan kiss was unplannedTamil star Rekha made a shocking revelation earlier this year when she revealed that Kamal Haasan had kissed the actress impromptu in filmmaker K. Balachander's 1986 film Punnagai Mannan. Rekha was 16 at that time and said that the makers had said that the kiss would be censored. Fans had asked Kamal Haasan to apologise to the actress for kissing her without consent.Shruti Haasan on plastic surgeryShruti Haasan’s pictures on social media had gone viral and fans had commented on her post asking her about her drastic transformation. Fed up with the comments on her weight loss and plastic surgery, Shruti had opened up on her plastic surgery saying that she is not ashamed to admit the same.Sri Reddy took jibe at Samantha and TrishaSri Reddy had posted a picture of herself on her social handle and had captioned it saying that her assets were bigger than that of Samantha Akkineni and Trisha Krishnan. It had created quite a stir in the industry.Rashamika Mandanna’s song Karabuu controversyRashmika Mandanna and Chetan Kumar’s song Karabuu from Pogaru created a controversy. The song features the hero who is a rowdy gangster forcing the heroine to romance him. He could be seen pulling her hair and threatening to kill her. Romancing the heroine without her consent enraged people who expressed displeasure over the same.Pooja Hegde’s Instagram hackedPooja Hegde’s Instagram was hacked a couple of months ago and the actress had revealed the same on her Twitter handle. Someone had posted a picture of Samantha on Pooja’s profile with a comment that read: “I don't find her pretty at all.” Screenshots of Samantha’s chat with her friends, Nandini Reddy and Chimanyi Sripada, poking fun at Pooja’s hacked profile added fuel to the fire. #PoojamustapologizeSamantha and #WeSupportPoojaHedge had been trending on social media for a while after that.Vijay Deverakonda slams news portals for fake news; Mahesh Babu extends supportAmidst the COVID-19 pandemic, Vijay Deverakonda through The Deverakonda Foundation had been helping the poor and needy. However, he lost his cool when he came across fake reports and news piece concerning his efforts to help people. He had slammed the media in a video that he shared on his social handle. Mahesh Babu had extended his support to the Arjun Reddy star.Rajinikanth receives death threatsIn a shocking event, the Thalaivar of the entertainment industry, Rajinikanth received a bomb threat call at his Chennai residence, Poes Garden. The reports suggest that the caller threatened to have planted a bomb at the superstar's home. Soon after this, the Chennai police arrived at Thalaivar's residence and searched the entire property but didn't get any trace of it as they realised it was a hoax call.Phew! A lot of controversies."
Web Desk,CONFIRMED! Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's film TITLE and FIRST LOOK to be revealed on July 10 at 10 am,2020-07-08,"Prabhas fans it is time to celebrate! The team has taken to social media to reveal that the title and first look of Prabhas' 20th film will be unveiled on July 10 at ten am. This is indeed great news. We have heard that the film is titled Jaan but we will get complete clarity on that day. After heavy duty movies like the Baahubali series and Saaho, Prabhas is back with a period romance. The film has been shot in many European countries. Fans cannot contain their excitement on social media at this announcement. In fact, the handsome hunk flew back to Hyderabad just before the lockdown. He was shooting in Georgia. Also Read - Radhe Shyam: Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's poster gets a coronavirus TWIST from Assam Police — view picPooja Hegde wrote on Instagram, ""The announcement you all have been waiting for! Title & first look of our film #Prabhas20 will be out on 10.7.2020 at 10 AM."" She shared the picture that shows a clock circled by a floral wreath. It seems Prabhas plays the role of a fortune-teller in the romance that has a bit of comedy as well. It is being bankrolled by the makers of Saaho, UV Creations. The director is Radhakrishna Jagarlamudi who is better known as Krish. His last film, the biopic on late NT Rama Rao did not do well at the box office. This is how social media reacted to the news... Also Read - Week That Was South: Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's Radhe Shyam first look released, Allu Arjun shares an adorable pic of daughter ArhaBhai movie ka naam abhi release nahi huva...10 ko release hoga#Prabhas20 — Abhi (@abhi_darlingfan) July 8, 2020Much much awaited update ????????? Darling is coming on his way to create an another record ?? Thank you much for this news. It's party time ❤ #Prabhas20 #Prabhas #prabhas20Firstlook #PrabhaFanIkkada ? All the best brother much excited for the first look ??? pic.twitter.com/pDOhboRVYL — Soumya Sharma?❤ (@ItsMe_Soumya) July 8, 2020As much awaited our #Prabhas20 Title and First look is releasing on July 10th, it had to be our top priority. So there will be a change in plans and #Baahubali trend is not a 24 Hour Trend. Exact timings will be announced by evening. pic.twitter.com/q4x4jw6LG7 — PrabhasCult™ (@PrabhasCult4_) July 8, 2020#Prabhas20 our wait was coming to an end ???feast for fans and coming to shatter old records and to create new records.this gonay be like prabhas is saying may I come in.???❤️ — Jaswanth aitha (@AithaJaswanth) July 8, 2020During the promotions of Housefull4, Pooja Hegde opened up about Prabhas. She said, ""Prabhas is always chilled out, he is so considerate. He not only loves to eat but also loves to feed. His cook brings us lip-smacking meals on the set."" Well, we have seen that in Shraddha Kapoor's Insta stories during the time of Saaho. Pooja Hegde is on a roll in the Telugu film industry. She has done films like Maharishi, Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo and Aravindha Sametha that are bonafide blockbusters. Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today: Radhe Shyam first look, Dil Bechara title song, Rohit Shetty's fake encounter"
Web Desk,WTF Wednesday: Prachi Desai’s reaction on Ajay Devgn’s lack of acknowledgment again proves that insiders will be insiders,2020-07-08,"The tragic demise of Sushant Singh Rajput has left the nation bereaved and shaken. It has been revealed that the actor was depressed. With reports coming in that he was upset at the gossip being circulated in his name, people are upset with the Bollywood fraternity at the allegedly discriminatory attitude towards outsiders. Yesterday, Ajay Devgn remembered Bol Bachchan as the film completed eight years. He tagged three people in his tweet, Amitabh and Abhishek Bachchan and make Rohit Shetty. Seeing this, Prachi Desai pointed out that Asin, she and others were also part of the blockbuster. Of late, people have become vocal about their feelings on being ‘left out’. Last week, Vidyut Jammwal called out an OTT platform for not even giving him an invitation when his film was coming out on that medium. Also Read - 'HYPOCRISY QUEEN PRACHI DESAI' trends on Twitter as Ajay Devgan's fans dig up old tweets of the actressSeeing the support that Vidyut Jammwal received from social media, one would have felt that Bollywood would be more inclusive, at least for ‘show’s sake’ but it clearly it seems different. In the above situation, Ajay Devgn seemed to be remembering Bol Bachchan with regards to his personal conversations with Amitabh and Abhishek Bachchan. He could have easily done that and would have been acceptable too if he did not tag in Rohit Shetty. Though many might feel that Prachi Desai’s retort is a little too severe, it is high time that Bollywood did some introspection. Of course, the public has to be patient as it cannot happen overnight. While nepotism is a reality, one cannot ignore that it is human tendency to cheer and watch out for people of our ‘own flock’ before we care for ‘others’. Also Read - Prachi Desai schools Ajay Devgn after he tags only Abhishek Bachchan in his post remembering the blockbuster Bol BachchanMany might feel that Prachi Desai kind of over-reacted but it is a reflection that something is basically quite wrong. A team collaborates to make a film. It might have only insiders or a mix of both. For starters, the industry could be a little fair in its acknowledgments. We are sure that it would make people feel a lot better! Also Read - Throwback Thursday: When Abhishek Bachchan feared Ajay Devgn and Rohit Shetty would replace him in Bol Bachchan"
Web Desk,"Abhishek Bachchan on being Amitabh Bachchan's son; says, 'He never wanted me to be anything but his son'",2020-07-08,"How was it for Abhishek Bachchan growing up as Amitabh Bachchan's son, the icon who was the numero uno superstar of the nation for more than a decade and a half, and how it still is living with and being a part of the same industry as a cinematic legend. Well, in case if you ever pondered over these queries and have ever wondered if such thoughts have crossed Abhishek's mind, the actor has finally revealed all in a recent interview. Also Read - 'Amitabh Bachchan, Abhishek, Ayurveda jaldi theek ho jaayenge,' Juhi Chawla tweets clarification on baffling tweet for the BachchansSpeaking to Hindustan Times, Abhishek Bachchan said, “I’ve never thought about it. I’m the son of my father. At home, it’s just that, he has never wanted me to be anything else but that. My mother never allowed it to be anything else. I’m the son of my father, I’m a colleague of a legend. That’s the way I look at it.” Also Read - ‘Thank you for your eternal love and affection,’ tweets an emotional Amitabh Bachchan from the hospitalElaborating on the equation he shared with Amitabh Bachchan, the actor added, “He never brings his work home, never imposes, what I believe as a fan rightly should be, the fact he’s a living legend of cinema. At home, he’s my friend, somebody I can sit with, watch sports or movies, discuss politics and current affairs. I think it’s very important to understand that dynamic, which I understand is very difficult to comprehend when you’re not living that and viewing it as a third person. I’ve never looked upon it adversely. My love and respect for my parents is far too big for me to ever think to disrespect that emotion by thinking about it adversely.” Also Read - Amitabh Bachchan's four bungalows sealed after Bachchan family gets infected by CoronavirusAmitabh and Abhishek have previously shared screen space in full-fledged roles in six films, including Bunty Aur Babli, Sarkar, Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna, Jhoom Barabar Jhoom, Sarkar Raj and Paa."
Web Desk,"Sushant Singh Rajput suicide: 'There is no family support, no political support,' says Shekhar Suman",2020-07-08,"AS Shekhar Suman's demand for a CBI inquiry into the suicide of Sushant Singh Rajput grows louder, the former has lamented the fact that he's not receiving any support from political parties or even the actor's family. Taking to his official Twitter handle, the actor wrote: “This is so disheartening, there is no family support, no political support. Things are not conducive around us and yet even after 3 weeks we have kept Sushant alive and will keep doing so. This perhaps makes it the biggest movement so far. #justiceforSushantforum”. Check out his tweet below: Also Read - Trending Tunes: Sushant Singh Rajput's Khairiyat is back on the chartThis is so disheartening,there is no family support,no political support.Things are not conducive around us and yet even after 3 weeks we have kept Sushant alive and will keep doing so.This perhaps makes it the biggest movement so far.#justiceforSushantforum — Shekhar Suman (@shekharsuman7) July 7, 2020Vexing his disappointment further, Shekhar Suman posted in another tweet: “I Don't see any reason why the Govt of India should not respond to millions of hearts bleeding for Sushant. All we are asking for is a fair investigation. Are we asking for too much? Have a heart #CBIEnquiryForSSR #Justiceforsushantforum #BreakTheSilenceForSSR”. Read it below: Also Read - RIP Sushant Singh Rajput: Late actor's hometown Purnea names a road after himI Don't see any reason why the Govt of India should not respond to millions of hearts bleeding for Sushant.All we are asking for is a fair investigation.Are we asking for too much?Have a heart#CBIEnquiryForSSR #Justiceforsushantforum#BreakTheSilenceForSSR — Shekhar Suman (@shekharsuman7) July 7, 2020Speaking about the need of a CBI inquiry into Sushant Singh Rajput's death, Shekhar had recently told ETimes in an interview, “There is this question that's arising in everybody's mind. There are millions of people who are just demanding that there are a lot of facts and evidence that are cropping up every day, of course, under the periphery of speculation. So I said the best way to quell all these rumors and speculations is to do a CBI inquiry.” Also Read - Ankita Lokhande gets moving messages from fans after Sushant Singh Rajput's death, 'A part of his heart is alive in you'So, what do you think about Shekhar Suman's tweets, demanding a CBI inquiry? Tweet and let us know @bollywood_life ."
Web Desk,"‘5 years gone by in a flash,’ says Shahid Kapoor on 5th wedding anniversary with Mira Rajput",2020-07-08,"Can you believe that it’s been 5 years since Shahid Kapoor and Mira Rajput tied the knot? Yup, time flies. That’s what even Shahid Kapoor mentioned in his Instagram post dedicated to Mira. He wrote, ""5 years. Gone by in a flash. Found beauty in the smaller things. Found happiness within not without. Found meaning to together we can. Found myself a little more walking by your side my love. Thank you for being you. And thank you for helping me be a better me. Happy anniversary my love."" Also Read - Mira Rajput pens a beautiful anniversary post for Shahid Kapoor; says, 'You make me laugh like no one else'On the other hand, Mira wrote, ""5 years, 4 souls, 3 homes, 2 babies and 1 beautiful family. There’s nobody I’d rather be on this journey called life than you my love. I fall in love with you more every day. And I’m the luckiest girl in the world to have the love of my life be my best friend. Thank you for everything, for being my strength and for walking through everything together, hand in hand. I love you ❤️ You make me laugh like no one else. And more often than not I’m laughing at you. Please don’t forget. Wife is always right. And the three golden words will always be “I am sorry” ? To many more years of us ? ??❤️,"" Also Read - When Mira Rajput silenced Karan Johar and left hubby Shahid Kapoor in awe on Koffee with Karan — watch videoIn an interview with Filmfare, Shahid spoke about Mira. ""She got married so young, had two kids and had to figure out how to deal with that when she was just stepping out of being a kid herself. She must have had her dreams and desires but she pushed those aside. That’s a lot to deal with. Also, the fact that we have an age difference, we are 13 years apart,” he said. Also Read - Happy anniversary Shahid Kapoor and Mira Rajput: 5 times the couple was unabashedly open about their sex life"
Web Desk,Vivek Dahiya wedding anniversary: 9 pictures of TV's adorable couple that make us scream Yeh Hai Mohabbatein,2020-07-08,"Everyone got a shock in the wee hours of January 8, 2016 when pictures of Divyanka Tripathi's engagement with Vivek Dahiya went viral. While rumours of them dating had been doing the rounds since November 2015, the two had maintained that they were just good friends. #DiVek came out after the engagement saying that their courtship was more like what happens in arranged marriages. Both of them had taken efforts to keep it away from the public glare. They more than made up for it by giving us romantic pictures and some interviews where they gushed over each other. Vivek Dahiya had told Bollywood Life, “I think we are quite romantic in our own ways. The expression of love differs. Romance is not about the setting, it’s about communicating. When I look deep into her eyes, I see her heart, which is filled with love for me. That is our romance. At times, we just look at each other and keep staring."" Also Read - Divyanka Tripathi Dahiya and Vivek Dahiya celebrate their 4th wedding anniversary in a unique way — view postsThey have been hitched for four years now and their romance has grown stronger. Here is a look at 9 lovely pictures of the couple that will make you gush over their cute love... Vivek Dahiya bonding with his dog over video call is the best thing you'll see todayView this post on Instagram ❤️ A post shared by Vivek Dahiya (@vivekdahiya) on Mar 10, 2019 at 12:15am PSTView this post on Instagram Special visitor on the sets of #QKR A post shared by Vivek Dahiya (@vivekdahiya) on Aug 11, 2018 at 6:29am PDTView this post on Instagram मुझको भावे...गलियाँ तेरी गलियाँ ! A post shared by Divyanka Tripathi Dahiya (@divyankatripathidahiya) on May 24, 2019 at 7:38am PDTView this post on Instagram Do I see some prank brewing in those eyes? A post shared by Divyanka Tripathi Dahiya (@divyankatripathidahiya) on Dec 17, 2018 at 5:44am PSTWe wish the couple a very happy marriage anniversary. Also Read - Hina Khan, Shaheer Sheikh, Manish Raisinghan — here are the TV Instagrammers of the week"
Web Desk,Vijay Deverakonda introduces a new family member with a cutest post,2020-07-08,"Telugu superstar Vijay Deverakonda on Monday shared snapshots of his dog Storm with fans. Also Read - #BLBestOf6: Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo, Sarileru Neekevvaru, Bheeshma: Vote for the best South film trailer of 2020 so far""Introducing Storm Deverakonda,"" Vijay posted on Instagram. In one of the images, we can see the dog sitting on Vijay's head. Also Read - Week That Was South: Prabhas-Pooja Hegde's Radhe Shyam first look released, Allu Arjun shares an adorable pic of daughter ArhaThe actor's fans were quick to post comments. Also Read - From Chiranjeevi's war of words with Rajasekhar to Rajinikanth receiving death threats — 12 controversies that shook the South film industryA user commented: ""You both look so cute.""""Storm made me smile,"" another one wrote.It seems a lot of celebrities have bonded well with their pets during the lockdown.A few days ago, actress Alia Bhatt introduced her new pet to the world, a black kitten she has named Juniper.She also shared a selfie with her new pet and sister Shaheen Bhatt."
Web Desk,"Tujhse Hai Raabta: Abigail Pande and Sanam Johar to marry on set, but there's a catch",2020-07-08,"Tujhse Hai Raabta is all set to return to TV shows from Jul 13th. A new track will be aired since the script and all had to undergo changes give the fact that the pandemic is still at large. However, the shoots are being conducted with ample precautionary and safety measures. Tujhse Hai Raabta features Reem Sameer and Sehban Azim as Kalyani and Malhar Rane. Since the scripting and all will be changed, a new track will be introduced in the show wherein, Sanam Johar and Abigail Pande will enter the show. And that's not it, they will be marrying on the show. Also Read - As Dipika Kakar and Shoaib Ibrahim get married, we hope Prince -Yuvika, Rithvik-Asha follow suit!Yes, you heard that right. However, there's a catch. Sanam Johar and Abigail Pande will be making a lockdown special cameo appearance in Tujhse Hai Raabta in which they will be seen essaying the role of power couple Sharad and Priya. Rane family would be heading for the wedding when they will be quarantined at the venue due to pandemic. Also Read - Real life couple Sanam Johar and Abigail Pande to romance in MTV's Love On The Run - read detailsA series of circumstances would make Sharad and Priya call of their wedding. And that is when Kalyani, Malhar and Anupriya will try their best to make them see sense. Also Read - Nach Baliye 8 grand finale LIVE Update: Divyanka - Vivek are the winners of the show while Sanam - Abigail become the first runners-upSanam and Abigail have been dating for quite a long time now. Earlier in an interview, Abigail and Sanam had opened up on who is more romantic between the two and Sanam had insisted that he is more romantic and the actress had agreed. She even went on to narrate an incident saying, ""Yes, he often sends me videos where he dedicates songs for me. Once I was on my way to work which is in Naigaon (almost 50kms from my home). I called him up and said, 'Sanam you know all my co-stars have packed up and they were saying today they will go and have wine with nice food. I am feeling so bad.' Within two hours, Sanam surprised me on my set with a bottle of wine and food in hand. In that way, he is very romantic. It's all very filmy but it feels nice."""
Web Desk,"Madalsa Sharma CONFIRMS she's joining the cast of Anupamaa, but not as Additi Gupta's replacement",2020-07-07,"Before lockdown, Rupali Ganguly starrer Anupamaa was to air, however, as a result of the lockdown the show was cancelled from being aired on Indian television. A few days ago, it was reported that Madalsa Sharma, Mithun Chakravarty's daughter-in-law, Mimoh's wife is all set to make her television debut with the Rajan Shahi TV Show. It was reported that the actress will be replacing Additi Gupta in the TV show however, the actress has clarified that that is not so. Also Read - Mithun Chakraborty’s daughter-in-law Madalsa Sharma might replace Additi Gupta in Rajan Shahi's Anupama?In an interview with Spotboye, Madalsa said, ""It was a get set go situation honestly but I was happy to do it because I always wanted to work with Rajan Shahi sir. And when this offer came to me I didn't give it a second thought. This is my beginning on TV and starting my journey here with such a reputed banner itself is an honour."" Also Read - Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai, Kumkum Bhagya, Additi Gupta — here are the TV newsmakers of the weekMadalsa went on to share deets about her character saying, ""I am playing Kavya who is a businesswoman and it's a very interesting character with many shades. She is a strong, independent and self-built girl. Who is very ambitious, hard-working, focused and determined, completely a today's girl. There is an important journey of her on the show. The plot of the story is extremely relatable and I am sure the audience is going to like it."" Also Read - Ishqbaaaz’s Additi Gupta tests POSITIVE for Coronavirus, says, ‘One should not shy away from talking about it’When asked whether she would be replacing Additi the actress denied the same saying, ""So the audience will get to see me only as Kavya and not Additi. As we are reshooting everything which they had shot with her. They had shot a few portions with her before the lockdown and apparently, she had quit the show owing to the health reason they decided to shoot those portions again with me. So technically it's not even a replacement as the audience will get to see me only as Kavya onscreen. The show has not gone on air yet and the audience has not seen her in the character. So it's not like they will connect and then have to disconnect, it's a completely new character for me and the audience as well."""
Web Desk,"Johnny Lever's daughter, Jamie, on nepotism: 'There’s favouritism, but not all star kids are given the privilege'",2020-07-07,"Since Sushant Singh Rajput's demise, the debate of nepotism has taken a new turn with people slamming all the star kids and bigshots all over social media. Sushant's fan has been trending a hashtag on Twitter for boycotting the star kids and Bollywood on the whole. A lot of star kids have been at the receiving end of this. Recently, Indian's most loved comedian, Johnny Lever's daughter Jamie, opened up on nepotism, saying that, there is favouritism but no nepotism in Bollywood. Also Read - Jamie Lever and dad Johnny recreate a moment from Awara Paagal Deewana on TikTok and it's the best thing on social mediaIn an interview with Mid-Day, the Housefull 4 actress said, ""I can talk about my journey, being a film child, a star-kid, although I don’t like saying that, I think when people talk about Nepotism, it doesn’t apply to all the star kids. Not all-star kids are given the privilege. I’ve had a very different journey. There’s favouritism, there’s no nepotism, there’s favouritism to a certain lot."" Also Read - Housefull 4 POSTERS: Meet Rajkumaris from 1419 Kriti Sanon aka Madhu, Pooja aka Mala and Kriti aka Meena""There’s favouritism to a friend’s child, there’s favouritism to a certain group of people you know. My dad has done his job as his job, he didn’t make it his life. He went to work, shot for his films and came back home, that was his real life. He's lived his real life which was his family, his friends, his spirituality. We were never a part of any filmy parties, we never went, we were never a part of any group. My dad was never filmy, my mother, as I said, came from a very humble background."" Jamie Lever added. Also Read - THIS father-daughter comic duo joins the cast of Akshay Kumar-Riteish Deshmukh's Housefull 4Jamie Lever further revealed that she never used her father's name to get auditions. She added that Johnny never made phone calls for her. On the other hand, Jamie is very active on social media. She is also an ace mimicry artist and has mimicked Sonam Kapoor and Farah Khan.What do you have to say on Jamie's take on Nepotism?"
Web Desk,"Mira Rajput pens a beautiful anniversary post for Shahid Kapoor; says, 'You make me laugh like no one else'",2020-07-07,"Today marks the fifth wedding anniversary of one of Bollywood's most loved couple, Shahid Kapoor and Mira Rajput. The two tied the knot in July 2015, it's been 5 years but feels like just yesterday when Mira stole the handsome hunk and one of the most loved actors of Bollywood. Mira Rajput took to her social handle to wish her actor hubby on their fifth wedding anniversary. And it's such an endearing post that it will make you go aww. Also Read - ‘5 years gone by in a flash,’ says Shahid Kapoor on 5th wedding anniversary with Mira Rajput""5 years, 4 souls, 3 homes, 2 babies and 1 beautiful family ❤️,"" Mira began her post that took a funny turn towards the end. ""There’s nobody I’d rather be on this journey called life than you my love. I fall in love with you more every day. And I’m the luckiest girl in the world to have the love of my life be my best friend. Thank you for everything, for being my strength and for walking through everything together, hand in hand. I love you ❤️ You make me laugh like no one else. And more often than not I’m laughing at you. Please don’t forget. Wife is always right. And the three golden words will always be “I am sorry” ? To many more years of us ? ??❤️,"" she wrote further. Have a dekko at her post here: Also Read - When Mira Rajput silenced Karan Johar and left hubby Shahid Kapoor in awe on Koffee with Karan — watch videoMeanwhile, earlier in an interview with Filmfare, Shahid Kapoor opened up on Mira as his wife. ""She got married so young, had two kids and had to figure out how to deal with that when she was just stepping out of being a kid herself. She must have had her dreams and desires but she pushed those aside. That’s a lot to deal with. Also, the fact that we have an age difference, we are 13 years apart,"" Shahid had heaped praises on his wife, Mira adding that she is his best friend. Also Read - Happy anniversary Shahid Kapoor and Mira Rajput: 5 times the couple was unabashedly open about their sex life"
Web Desk,"Trending Entertainment News Today: Salman Khan’s studio booking, Dil Bechara beats Avengers",2020-07-07,"As dark cloud gain prominence with the night sky creeping in, it's time to look back at the biggest newsmakers who've made it to the trending entertainment news today. From Salman Khan booking an entire floor in Mehboob Studio for Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai and eight controversies that rocked the TV industry in the first half of 2020 to Sanjay Leela Bhansali revealing he had approached Sushant Singh Rajput for Ram-Leela, Raveena Tandon confessing to people in Bollywood planning others’ failures and Dil Bechara beats Avengers: Endgame to become the most liked trailer on YouTube – Bollywood, Hollywood and TV news grabbed all the headlines today to make it to the trending entertainment news today. Also Read - Sushant Singh Rajput suicide: 'Don't close the topic,' says Yuvika Chaudhary as she demands justice for the actorSo, without further ado, here are the entertainment newsmakers of 7th July 2020:Salman Khan books an entire floor in Mehboob Studio for Radhe: Your Most Wanted BhaiHere is some good news for all fans of Salman Khan. If a report in a leading tabloid is to be believed, then he will resume shoot of Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai in August. Salman Khan is keen to wrap up Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai with Disha Patani. Also Read - Sara Ali Khan's twinning moment with mom Amrita Singh and Karan Johar, Ranbir Kapoor celebrating Neetu Kapoor's birthday went viral this weekRead the full story here:Salman Khan to resume shoot for Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai in August? Here’s what we know Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today: Radhe Shyam first look, Dil Bechara title song, Rohit Shetty's fake encounterEight controversies that rocked the TV industry in the first half of 2020Celebrities from tellyland like Sidharth Shukla, Mahhi Vij-Jay Bhanushali and others were dragged into controversies this year. A lot of things happened in the first half of 2020, which makes us feel like it’s been more than just 6 months into 2020. Here’s a recap of all the TV controversies that grabbed headlines in the past six months.Read the full story here:From Sidharth Shukla’s 'FIXED' Bigg Boss 13 victory to Hindustani Bhau filing a case against Ekta Kapoor – 8 controversies that SHOOK the world of TVSanjay Leela Bhansali reveals he had approached Sushant Singh Rajput for Ram-LeelaThe cat is finally out of the bag, filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali has revealed that he had indeed offered Goliyon Ki Rasleela Ram-Leela to the late Sushant Singh Rajput, but talks between the two couldn't materialise as the actor could not dedicate the time than Bhansali had needed from him for the project.Read the full story here:Sushant Singh Rajput suicide - Sanjay Leela Bhansali REVEALS he had indeed approached the actor for Ram-LeelaRaveena Tandon confesses to people in Bollywood planning others’ failuresIt’s been more than three weeks since the demise of Sushant Singh Rajput. There are still many discussions and debates about nepotism, conspiracy theories surrounding his death. Now actress Raveena Tandon has spoken a lot on the hullabaloo that’s happening.Read the full story here:Sushant Singh Rajput suicide - ‘There are people in the film industry who do plan your failure,’ says Raveena TandonDil Bechara beats Avengers: Endgame to become the most liked trailer on YouTubeIn less than 24 hours, Dil Bechara's trailer has beaten those of global blockbusters like Avengers: Endgame and Avengers: Infinity War. As of now, the trailer has 22 million views and 5.1 million likes, which is the highest for any film in the world.Read the full story here:Sushant Singh Rajput's Dil Bechara trailer BEATS Avengers Endgame to become the most liked trailer on YouTube"
Web Desk,"Dil Bechara trailer: 'The dream of my brother, Sushant Singh Rajput,' says director Mukesh Chhabra",2020-07-07,"The trailer of Sushant Singh Rajput's last film, Dil Bechara, which released yesterday, has been met with ubiquitous appreciation across all quarters, so much so that it has broken the record of Avengers: Endgame, becoming the most watched trailer on YouTube. This has no doubt left Director and close friend Mukesh Chhabra overwhelmed, and he soon took to social media to express his emotions, labelling the trailer his brother, Sushant's dream, while telling the audience out there to watch it as many as times as they'd like to with family and friends as it's now in their hands. Also Read - Sushant Singh Rajput suicide: 'Don't close the topic,' says Yuvika Chaudhary as she demands justice for the actorTaking to his official Twitter handle, Mukhesh Chhabra wrote: “Finally after such a long wait, 2 years of my life. So many friendships close to my heart,so many ups and downs, happy and sad moments. Presenting to you our dream and the dream of my brother, Sushant, who will live on in me till my last breath. The trailer of my debut film #DilBechara. So much has changed in my life these past years and I will always cherish every single moment. Putting the trailer out there in your hands and in your hearts. It’s over to you now. For every single one of you to watch from your home as many times as you like, I’m glad it’s free for everyone, without any subscription, so every single person in India can watch it. So many mixed emotions. I urge you to watch it with your family, friends, girlfriend, boyfriend, loved ones. For you to celebrate a life that lived and will forever be in our hearts.” Also Read - Sara Ali Khan's twinning moment with mom Amrita Singh and Karan Johar, Ranbir Kapoor celebrating Neetu Kapoor's birthday went viral this weekCheck out his tweet below:Dil Bechara, starring late Sushant Singh Rajput and Sanjana Sanghi, will release directly on an OTT platform on 24th July 2020, but its access will be available to everyone, even those who aren't subscribers of said OTT platform. Also Read - Trending Entertainment News Today: Radhe Shyam first look, Dil Bechara title song, Rohit Shetty's fake encounter"
