Author,Title,PubDate, content
Humayun Gauhar,Historic blunders,2020-07-12,"To rule successfully is to rule well. To rule well is to give the people what they want. It would be good for Prime Minister Imran Khan to make his own list of what he thinks it is that the people want. I would say that first and foremost, people want to live. They don’t want to live like stray dogs on the street. They want to live in dignity with at least their basic needs met. They want security and reassurance against threats being perpetually meted out by demented neighbours. It goes without saying that they want life, liberty and to use a good phrase from the American constitution– “the pursuit of happiness.” That is their bounden right. And it shouldn’t be difficult to understand. Prime Minister Imran Khan, I feel, has got caught up in the difficulties of implementing his agenda, which raised people’s hopes sky high and which level of expectation he is finding it hard to reach. Needless to say, people also want food, shelter and clothing, the old slogan of the People’s Party, which it didn’t take seriously. They want health facilities; they want education for their children, because in Islam it is the basic fundamental right of every person to be able to develop his or her mind to its fullest potential and it is the duty of the State, if it really is an Islamic state, to provide the wherewithal for that. I will at some point make a list of what are the fundamental Islamic rights of people in an Islamic State, which it is Imran Khan’s duty to implement, not immediately, but at least give it a start.Most importantly, the people want justice at every level, which is most strikingly absent in today’s Pakistan. There are tens of thousands of people languishing in prison just awaiting trial and our judiciary is overwhelmed by the numbers and unnecessary bureaucratic procedures and many laws that are asses. Many have spent more time in prison awaiting trial then they would if they had been convicted for the crime they have allegedly committed. Take the case of Mir Shakil ur Rehman, owner of the Jang Group. He is languishing in incarceration for over four months now without any formal charges being brought against him. What prize justice? This in itself is an abhorrence to the concept of natural law. That is not all. Many journalists and press mediums are under unnecessary pressures. Channel 24 was closed down for a time and given quite a run around till a court restored its viewership. Imran Khan should realize that he who takes on the media never wins. The media is a ball of fire that you can’t hold. Look at what happened to Richard Nixon. Look at what happened to Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, who arrested many editors. Chaudhry Shujat Husain gave Imran Khan sterling advice when he told him not to open yet another front with the media unless he has his case watertight and one that is likely to be accepted in an honourable court of law. The media has become the fourth pillar of the state and taking it on is like taking on Parliament, or the judiciary or even elements in the executive, especially the Army, which, Imran should have learnt by now, ends up calling the shots when it wants to.People also moan about Imran Khan’s team and how wanting it seems to be. A few notable exceptions notwithstanding, the people are not wrong. Why has an intelligent man like Imran Khan made such a stunningly mediocre team? To understand that one has to understand that he is a child of the system and the system is atrocious in the extreme. When a prime minister is forced to choose his team from the small pool of the National Assembly and Senate instead of from amongst all the very able Pakistanis available, it is not surprising that his team is mediocre. The system is a child of the constitution and the constitution is a child of the annihilation of democratic principles, made as it is by a rump assembly after the loss of East Pakistan and the majority party that had been elected. The constitution is a product of our historic misfortunes and mistakes starting from before the Partition of India. Being still mentally colonized by the British, it is a no brainer that, like other colonies, we adopted the British political system which may work for them (although it has stopped working now) but which can never work for a federation like Pakistan. India did the same and where are its people now? As wretched as ever.It has become conventional wisdom that Imran Khan cannot be replaced because there is no alternative to him anymore. True. Within this system, there really isn’t, which to me more than anything else symbolizes the utter and complete collapse of our system. In fact, electoral democracy, be it parliamentary or presidential, is actually failing all over the world and the method of government making will need to change drastically. Pakistan is not the only country which looks like it has no choices. Does the USA? President Trump was actually no choice. The Democratic Party is unable to come up with a credible presidential nominee and have fallen back on an old and stale man. In Britain, Boris Johnson does not leave much to be desired. There also is no potential prime minister who seems to be knocking on the door of Ten Downing Street. They will also have to rethink their system.The most glaring dilution of the will of the people comes from having Electoral Colleges to choose a head of government. In the USA you have an electoral college of a few hundred people who elect the president and they often go against the popular vote as they did the last time. In Britain, you have the House of Commons comprising some 600-odd members who act as the electoral college. We have to presume here that the electors in electoral colleges truly represent the will of the people, which they patently do not.Back to Pakistan. Our first problem was in the Partition formula: that areas with Muslim majorities could go to Pakistan and the princely states would depend on the decision of their ruler. The point is that where Muslims were in a majority in India, they did not feel insecure and thus their demand for Pakistan was weaker than in areas where they were in a minority and felt insecure and threatened. But because we followed the formula of where Muslims were in a majority, we forgot the Muslims who lived in a minority and hankered after Pakistan much more. I think this formula was first suggested by Allama Iqbal in his famous Allahabad address. But if you ask me, I cannot think of an alternate formula.Pakistan ended up with a Constituent Assembly that had been elected in another country one year before Partition, that other country being United India. Thus many of the MPs in our new Constituent Assembly did not even have constituencies in Pakistan. What should have happened is that the founding fathers, no matter what the difficulties, should have called immediate elections in the new country so that those elected to Parliament could be called true representatives. In the event, we did not do this and ended up taking nine years to make Pakistan’s first constitution in 1956. That was another mistake. Pakistan was divided into two wings separated by 1,000 miles of hostile Indian territory. The politicians of West Pakistan were keen that power should not go to the Bengalis of East Pakistan and that the country should be ruled by West Pakistan, primarily the martial Punjabis and the swarthy Pathans with Sindhis thrown in. Balochistan was not on the scene. In order to prevent the Bengalis of East Pakistan forming a government, we devised a satanic formula which was called the Parity Principle, which assumed that the population of the two wings, east and west, would be deemed to be the same, thus emasculating the six percent majority of East Pakistan. Democracy was entirely absent and the cornerstone of democracy, the will of the people, entirely undermined. To make it look good, the 1956 Constitution forced West Pakistan’s four provinces to amalgamate into what they called the ‘One Unit.’ Thus the smaller provinces like Balochistan and others in the Northern Areas were in a way deprived even of their identity. Mind you, all this came at the hands of the politicians of West Pakistan. The surprising thing is that the Bengali politicians of East Pakistan agreed to it. The apologists insist that the East Pakistanis did so for the sake of unity, which is the most stupid argument borne of hindsight. That was another mistake. People ask why East Pakistan accepted the Parity Principle. The usual answer is that they wanted a constitution and ‘democracy at any price.’ If true, it actually shows an utter misunderstanding of democracy. Not to forget that the 1956 Constituent Assembly was by now very different from the original Constituent Assembly of 1947. This constitution was unworkable and anti-democratic and led to the military coup of 1958, which required the President of Pakistan, a civilian, to declare martial law and ask the Army to take over. Needless to say the Army kicked him out of the country in 21 days and then we had our first military ruler for ten years. That was General Ayub Khan who later made himself into a Field Marshal. Truth to tell, he ruled successfully because he more than any of his predecessors and successors developed the economy and gave the people a lot of what they wanted. But that should not be an indictment against the people’s vote. This was not really the first coup. The first was when the civil bureaucracy took over the office of Governor General and a little later another finance services officer was appointed prime minister.This is a long subject on which I will have to write more in the coming weeks. We will pick up the thread next time."
Ali Sukhanvar,The Black list of Human Rights abusers,2020-07-12,"The UK Parliament should sanction Indians tooThe UK has ultimately announced long-awaited sanctions against individuals involved in human rights violations. These individuals include the abusers from Saudi Arabia, Russia, Myanmar and North Korea. Dominic Rennie Raab, the First Secretary of State and Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs said, announcing the names of the ‘abusers’ in Parliament, that the sanctions would target 25 Russian nationals involved in the death of the Russian lawyer Sergei Magnitsky, 20 Saudi nationals involved in the murder of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi, two high-ranking generals implicated in the systemic killing of the Rohingyas in Myanmar, and two organizations using forced labour in North Korea. The most prominent name in the list is of Saud al-Qahtani who allegedly oversaw the team that killed Khashoggi in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. Qahtani is a close aide to the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman. Raab said, “Those with blood on their hands won’t be free to waltz into this country, to buy up property on the Kings Road, do their Christmas shopping in Knightsbridge, or siphon dirty money through British banks. You cannot set foot in this country, and we will seize your blood-drenched ill-gotten gains if you try.”Certainly this action of the UK Parliament is highly appreciable; we all need to stand against every type of human rights violations. It is an undeniable fact that without putting a check on those involved in human rights violations, this world could never be peaceful and prosperous. And furthermore it is also admirable that in the list of the human rights abusers, contrary to the previous practice, only the names of the Muslim individuals and Muslim countries are not included; the list includes the non-Muslims too; but at the same time it seems the list is missing some names which must have been on the very top; India, Kashmir and Narendra Modi.When we talk of the human rights violations, the worst example could be seen in the Indian Occupied Kashmir where the innocent Kashmiris cannot even breathe freely. Recently the whole world condemned the painfully agonizing picture of a three-year-old boy sitting over the bleeding dead body of his grandfather and crying for help in the Sopore area of the Indian Occupied Kashmir. The man, Bashir Ahmed Khan, was callously murdered by the Indian forces. He never had a criminal record, was never involved in any protest and never remained in any kind of political activity, but he was shot dead just to spread harassment and fear among the people. The most painful part of the episode was that this all was done in presence of his innocent grandson.No report on human rights violations can be completed without making reference to the brutalities committed by the Indian Armed Forces deputed in the Indian Occupied Kashmir. The helpless people on one hand have to face the indifferent selfish attitude of the courts of law and on the other hand illegal abduction, sexual harassment and use of pellet guns and shotguns by the military troops. This all is being done under the command and guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It is being hoped that the name of India and Mr Modi would not be ignored when the UK Parliament prepares and issues the next list of those involved in human rights violationsThis cruelty of the Indian forces grieved every heart. Not only the Muslims but everyone from other religious communities expressed deep sorrow over the incident. Advocate Devinder Singh Behl is the Chairman of the Jammu and Kashmir Social Peace Forum. He is respected everywhere as an impartial and neutral type of political leader whose only aim and objective is to fight for the rights of the suppressed Kashmiris. In a recent statement he said, condemning the brutality of the Indian Army, that this brutal killing must be an eye-opener for the international human rights organizations and the international community. He said that the three-year-old grandson crying near his grandfather’s body was a reflection of Indian oppression of unarmed Kashmiris and this brutal act of Indian forces personnel was enough to shake the conscience of the world. Mr Behl appealed to the international community and international human rights organizations to play their role in ending Indian oppression in occupied Kashmir and resolving the lingering Kashmir dispute in accordance with the UN resolutions.The situation in Indian Occupied Kashmir is getting worse day by day and even the pandemic could not put a full-stop to the human rights violations there. From illegal detention of young Kashmiri leaders to the rape of Kashmiri women, the tale of brutality seems never ending. According to the Kashmir Media Service, only in the month of June more than 50 innocent people were cruelly murdered by the Indian forces deputed in the Kashmir valley, three women were shamelessly gang-raped and more than 25 houses and shops were destroyed. From January 1989 to June 2020, at least 95,623 Kashmiris lost their lives at the hands of the Indian forces and more than 11000 women have been molested during the same period.No report on human rights violations can be completed without making reference to the brutalities committed by the Indian Armed Forces deputed in the Indian Occupied Kashmir. The helpless people on one hand have to face the indifferent selfish attitude of the courts of law and on the other hand illegal abduction, sexual harassment and use of pellet guns and shotguns by the military troops. This all is being done under the command and guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It is being hoped that the name of India and Mr Modi would not be ignored when the UK Parliament prepares and issues the next list of those involved in human rights violations."
Damiya Saghir,The ideological reposition,2020-07-12,"Pakistan, in itself is an idea. The basis of its formation is widely established on the idea of having an independent nation-state for the Muslims of the Subcontinent. However, understanding the ideology of Pakistan is something that needs a deeper thought process. If studied generally it will hold a different meaning and if its origins are traced back even before the Mughal Empire, it will entirely have a different meaning. Before we analyze the ideology of Pakistan, we first need to look at what are it and its significance.Different philosophers have attached various meanings to ideology but the most relatable to all is that ideology is a different form of those comprehensive patterns of moral beliefs about man, society, and the universe in relation to man and society. Ideology is often understood as a way of thinking about the cultural and social programme of a political movement launched to emancipate a suppressed group from the exploitation of a more dominant social class.Pakistan’s ideology completely fits this definition. During the Mughal era, the Muslims of the Subcontinent were the most dominant class from centuries and practised authority over the entire region. The Muslims were used to having control over power until the Mughal Empire gave way to Britain. It was only then, that a Muslim ideology began to be thought of. Since Hindus became dominant under British rule, Muslims were neglected in all political and social participation. It is difficult to accept failure and weakness when one has had power.We must have the moral courage to declare that religion cannot be the basis for creating a nation-state. Once we have established this basic premise, we must not let anyone– whether an elected representative or a religious extremist– use religion to exploit those honest, hardworking Pakistanis who are only seeking a square meal, some security of life and property, a decent education, healthcare and a little hope for the future. We must insist that religion is a matter of one’s belief and faith and there can be no restriction on practicing it in the private realm, but we must separate it from the affairs of the stateHence, the ideology for Muslims then was based on the concept of the two-nation theory. It was based on Muslims being a separate nation from Hindus, having their own culture, civilization, customs, literature, religion and the way of life. They cannot be merged into any other nation because their philosophy of life is based on Islam. Therefore, a movement for rights and equal representation began. The thought of a separate state was not the initial ideology of Muslims. They simply focused on getting equal representation. For a long time, Muslims fought for equal representation and equal rights as the second largest group. The ideology at this time was to give significance to the religion that was followed. Many activists started motivating Muslims to fight for their their position in society. Allama Iqbal wrote poetry to bring enthusiasm in the Muslims to realize how weak they had become.When they failed to revive the Muslim image and identity and it became difficult for them to protect their culture and civilization, the ideology shifted from equal representation to a separate homeland where Muslims can practice their religion freely, based on Islamic democracy in which God will be the sovereign. The struggle was dreadful but finally a separate home for Muslims was formed; Pakistan.Up until the formation of Pakistan, the ideology was based on the rule of religion and the famous slogan Pakistan ka matlab kiya, La ilaha illallah became the core of the freedom movement. However, after the formation of Pakistan, there was a shift. The ideology which first was the core idea now became the idea of Pakistan which needed to be protected.The major shift in Pakistan’s ideology was not to practice the same ideology anymore but to protect the state from the evil. By creation of a new state based on distrust and hatred, Partition actually created two warring states from Day One. This intense animosity between the two countries has remained the single most important factor in the formulation of Pakistan’s foreign policy. Internally, every leader in Pakistan has cynically invoked the spectre of India and milked the cow of national security whenever faced with domestic unrest and disaffection. The distrust of India gives immense clout to the Army. Pakistan, independent, should have been free from all the previous suppression but it still largely is insecure and under pressure of the threat from India. Half the country was lost and the remaining is insecure. Soon there may be nothing left to defend.Ideology is often understood as a way of thinking about the cultural and social programme of a political movement launched to emancipate a suppressed group from the exploitation of a more dominant social classTwenty-four years after Partition the same saga was repeated in 1971. Once again, thousands killed, raped or maimed. Only this time it was the blood of Muslims shed by other Muslims. This does not fit well at all in the “Two-Nation Theory”. Where was the mother of all bonding, Islam? Unless, of course, you say that East Pakistan and West Pakistan were two nations! More likely, years of exploitation by the West Wing gave the Bengalis a broken heart that no bond could keep together and no balm could heal. Reminding of the fact, later formed, but they are still doing better with their nation than Pakistan is.From 1971, the country is ripping apart and the glue of Islam is coming unstuck. The Baloch are demanding a separate province. Parts of Pakistan are not in the control of the state. The demand for an autonomous Sindh is picking up steam. All these people are Muslims, not Hindus or Sikh. Everybody today owns Pakistan in their own way. Jinnah in his first speech stated that Pakistan is a secular state. If so, why form Pakistan? Religious groups say Pakistan is a an Islamic state and follows Islamic principles whereas, we still ignore modern education or the rights of women and promote sectarianism.So ideology is a lost concept for Pakistan. Its uniqueness initially has slowly lost its relevance and due consideration in the world and within. We left our fellow Muslims back in India, lost many of them in the journey where only some managed to settle. Then again history repeated itself with east and West Pakistan and we lost another significant part. Moving forward we have been creating unrest and intolerance within our society. All of this done by ourselves and we blame that why the world considers us the enemy.We must have the moral courage to declare that religion cannot be the basis for creating a nation-state. Once we have established this basic premise, we must not let anyone– whether an elected representative or a religious extremist– use religion to exploit those honest, hardworking Pakistanis who are only seeking a square meal, some security of life and property, a decent education, healthcare and a little hope for the future. We must insist that religion is a matter of one’s belief and faith and there can be no restriction on practicing it in the private realm, but we must separate it from the affairs of the state."
Arif Nizami,The politics of APC,2020-07-11,"No clear directionFinally, leader of the opposition in the National Assembly Shahbaz Sharif has declared himself fully recovered from Covid-19. Since his return from London in March the former Punjab chief minister has been hibernating at this Model Town residence in Lahore, initially as a preventive measure and later on the pretext of having been struck by the pandemic.During this long hiatus, including his four months stay in London, the head of the largest opposition party in the country has virtually remained an absentee politician, restricting himself mostly to issuing statements.In the meanwhile, performing the role of the opposition in the National Assembly was left to parliamentary party leaders Khawaja Asif, former Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi and Ahsan Iqbal. While on the other hand Bilawal Bhutto, the chairperson of the PPP (Pakistan People’s Party), has been leading from the front.His hard-hitting narrative in the parliament and his various interactions with the media sharply contrast with the timid politics of Sharif. Most analysts contend that the PML-N (Pakistan Muslim league -Nawaz) president’s reticence is more by design rather than because of dint of circumstances.Sharif has never hidden his propensity to cohabit with the ubiquitous establishment. In the past he has been openly disagreeing with his elder brother Nawaz Sharif and niece Maryam Nawaz’s hawkish rhetoric.As a precursor to the 2018 general elections, the younger Sharif missed the bus primarily because he failed to deliver his brother, being unsuccessful in tempering his anti-establishment narrative. Only after the damage was done Sharif has been able to convince ‘bhai jaan’ to keep quiet.Shahbaz also had a pivotal role in enabling his brother to travel to London on the pretext of receiving urgent medical treatment.And he is not returning any time soon unless something gives in, like a regime change.But since then, enthusiasm for this kind of dispensation has waned. There is a belated realisation that it is simply impractical and hence a non-starter. If Khan goes the PTI government will go with him as well.In the meanwhile, Sharif is waiting in the wings instead of taking the bull by the horns. But waiting for what?If the PML-N president thinks that he will get any brownie points for being a ‘acha bacha’ (well behaved boy), he knows something that the rest of us don’t. There is no gain without pain. If he reckons that he will be crowned one day sitting at home, he is sadly mistaken.Khan, despite his almost daily gaffes is firmly entrenched. His mentors have never had it so good under a civilian dispensation. Why would they upset the apple cart?In the meanwhile, the opposition (sans PML-N) are very enthusiastic about holding an APC (All Parties Conference). Maulana Fazlur Rehman and Bilawal are its main proponents.The Maulana held an APC of his own in Karachi last Thursday. Second tier leaders of different political parties- with exception of the PTI of course- made a token presence.Bilawal, who recently came to Lahore to confer with Sharif to finalize APC arrangements (its date and agenda etc.) could not meet him as he was still quarantined. Later the two leaders spoke on telephone.Despite the urgency shown by the PPP chairperson, the PML-N leadership, apart from paying lip service, does not seem to be too enthusiastic about the idea. Most of them talk in vague terms about holding of the APC.On various talk shows PML-N leaders claim that an APC will be held soon. They are neither clear about its agenda, venue or timing.The maulana’s previous attempt to unite the opposition under one banner for a sit-in (dharna) in Islamabad last November miserably failed. None of the mainstream opposition leaders attended it.The JUI-F’s (Jmiat Ulema-e-Islam Fazl group) so called plans A and B proved to be a damp squib. Failing to gain any traction, Maulana Fazl ur Rehman’s largely solo show withered on the vine.This time round, things are slightly different. Bilawal seems to be more enthusiastic about it and Sharif has not rejected it out of hand. Nevertheless, the opposition has yet to spell out its objectives for launching a putsch against a government that has hardly completed two years of its five-year term.Shahid Khaqan Abbasi the other day claimed that the PTI government is like a ‘mayat’ (dead body) waiting to be buried. The longer it remains unburied, more the stink. Similar rhetoric is expressed by other opposition leaders.But on the other hand, most of them, including Abbasi, also contend that the government should not be ousted through extra constitutional means because if that happens, the opposition will not be a beneficiary.While some argue that fresh elections should be held as Khan a ‘selected’ prime minister has failed to deliver. But why would he call general elections knowing very well that despite tall claims to the contrary the PTI coalition has so far performed miserably?There is a forlorn hope expressed in some opposition circles that the coalition is imploding from within. Truly, BNP-M (Balochistan National Party – Mengal) has already left the ruling alliance with its four members in the National Assembly and one senator. In terms of majorities at the centre and in Punjab the PTI government is treading on thin iceThe PML-Q (Pakistan Muslim league Quaid) does not seem too happy with its alliance with the PTI either. The Chaudhry brothers do not mince their words while criticising their senior collation partner on various issuesHowever, the Chaudhrys, despite flirting with their erstwhile mother party the PML-N, are unlikely to quit the coalition. Same is the case with the so-called dissidents within the PTI. As long as the PTI has the support of powers that be, the coalition will remain intact. The gel that binds them together is the twin instincts of self-interest and survival.In this context, Khan will continue his undeclared policy of painting the opposition in a corner with a helping hand from NAB and other coercive arms of the state. The recent spat about leaking of the JIT (joint investigation team) reports is also a drama created to discredit the PPP leadership in Sindh.There has been talk about the so-called ‘minus one formula’. The first time I heard it was from Shahbaz Sharif himself before he left for London. Even foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi was named as an acceptable face for a consensual prime minister.But since then, enthusiasm for this kind of dispensation has waned. There is a belated realisation that it is simply impractical and hence a non-starter. If Khan goes the PTI government will go with him as well.Fresh elections could be a solution. But the country, infested with the Covid-19 scourge, it is impractical to hold them in the near future."
Rabia Ahmed,Free and open debate,2020-07-11,"Silencing opposing views is wrong, whoever does it“The way to defeat bad ideas is by exposure, argument and persuasion, not by trying to silence or wish them away.”That letter about Justice and Open Debate, the one that’s due to appear in Harper’s magazine’s October issue, has elicited quite a response, and rightly so. It is an important subject, one that we in Pakistan as much as anywhere else need to understand and address.The matter under discussion is– to quote the letter– that “wider calls for greater equality and inclusion” across society have “intensified a new set of moral attitudes”, ones that instead of leading to more debate and greater tolerance are tending to weaken them. This letter, signed by many academics and intellectuals including Noam Chomsky and Stephen Pinker, and authors including Margaret Atwood and J.K. Rowling speaks out against censoriousness, intolerance, “a vogue for public shaming and ostracism” and a tendency towards a “blinding moral certainty” amongst liberals. It speaks of clamping down against free speech and free journalism, of books being banned and professors being dismissed.In other words, it is a familiar scenario.The letter says that injustice and discrimination in society has led to protest– which is good, but– the signatories point out, this protest has intensified into a different kind of injustice when some of those with views opposing injustice and discrimination have become equally intolerant and censorious in a way that makes them unjust themselves.A simple illustration would be of a society in which women are forced to cover themselves and wear burkas. This society includes a set of persons who disagree with the burka and of women being forced to dress a certain way. They feel that women should be allowed to choose and not be forced to do something, which is right enough. But if these people refuse to allow the subject to come under discussion, if they force people who support the burka to recant, and try to force women to remove burkas, that is just as wrong. That is the sort of situation the letter refers to.The open platform provided by social media is not easy for all to accept. While most of us put up with the different views on social media, it is the first target for those whose power depends on being able to dictate to the public, because not everyone has the patience to persuade, to talk, to listen. Not everyone realises the importance of all sides of the argument being available for scrutiny, with the freedom and security of proponents of all sides ensured.Turns out that example isn’t imaginary after all. It has happened in Turkey. And in other ways, centering on different issues, it is happening around the world. We have seen and are seeing right here the suppression of debate and free speech and of people being forced out of academic institutions. Even though in this case and in many others it is the right wing or the ‘me-wing’ that censors, the result is the same, the suppression of debate which results in a suppression of individual freedom and rights. That is the natural progression of things: when debate is suppressed the result if always a ‘steady narrowing of the boundaries of what can be said without threat of reprisal.’Debate is at the crux of freedom. Today, when about 60 percent of the world’s population is online, social media provides an unprecedented platform to any person who is able to express himself or herself. On the other hand it has produced a ‘cancel culture’ which allows people to band together and hold people accountable for their actions or opinions. Usually the person held accountable in this way is someone well known, who people will listen to, someone whose views have an impact.The case of one of the signatories of that letter, J.K. Rowling, comes particularly to mind here. Rowling who recently wrote something in which she seemed to define only natal women as ‘people who menstruate,’ was subjected to a hail of abuse as a result, with some people responding that ‘transgender men experience menstruation, and transgender women don’t.’Rowling refuted the criticism leveled against her, saying she felt solidarity with all women, trans and natal. She explained her reasons for trying to define the difference which were the Scottish government’s decision to go ahead with its gender recognition plan which says that all a man needs to be recognized as a woman is to say he is one. Rowling said she wanted all women, trans as well as natal women, to be safe, but this cannot happen if you throw the doors to bathrooms and changing rooms open to any man who says he is a woman.Does this sound wrong?The open platform provided by social media is not easy for all to accept. While most of us put up with the different views on social media, it is the first target for those whose power depends on being able to dictate to the public, because not everyone has the patience to persuade, to talk, to listen. Not everyone realises the importance of all sides of the argument being available for scrutiny, with the freedom and security of proponents of all sides ensured.The reaction to what Rowling wrote seems to prove this point.You are free to disagree, and to resist. “But resistance must not be allowed to harden into its own brand of dogma or coercion.”"
Raoof Hasan,The case of two JIT reports,2020-07-11,"Just a can of worms, or an opportunity to cleanse the stables?Candid Corner“Whoever commits a fraud is guilty not only of the particular injury to him who he deceives, but of the diminution of that confidence which constitutes not only the ease, but the existence of society.” -Samuel JohnsonThere is one Uzair Baloch JIT report released by the government of Sindh. There is also this other JIT report which federal Maritime Affairs Minister Ali Zaidi claims has not been released because it would have destroyed the fortunes of some stalwarts of the People’s Party.The two parts may actually be part of the same report as indicated on the first page of the version shown by Ali Zaidi. It states that “the JIT report comprises two parts. First part (duly signed by the chairman and all members of the JIT and submitted to the Home Department as per procedure in vogue) primarily deals with hard core criminal activities carried out by the accused involving political figures. Though these two parts and their activities are intermingled and overlapping, however, due to obvious implications and need to be further probed, part II is being kept confidential and not released/published as such in this report. Confidential part of the report will be produced as and when required/asked by the competent authority”.Understandably, Ali is not willing to relent in the face of PPP leaders’ onslaught repudiating his claims. He has asked the Chief Justice to take suo motu notice of the case. Otherwise, he has vowed to file a petition before the apex court.At best, the matter pertains to tampering with an official document to save the PPP leaders from severe embarrassment and possible punitive proceedings and, at worst, it encompasses fraud, forgery and an attempt to hide the facts from public, or presenting them in a manner that does not serve the cause of truth and justice. This may entail initiation of criminal cases against those held responsible.Now that we don’t have the services of one Sherlock Holmes, the most appropriate forum to untangle the mystery is the apex court. In the process, the institution will have yet another opportunity to redeem itself and help people cultivate some faith in the justice system that is practised in the country. If a suo motu is not taken, it would prove yet again that the judges are not interested in changing the growing negative perception about their work and intent. By extension, it’ll also prove that they are not bothered about how individuals placed in positions of power conduct themselves in matters of law which do not fall within their private purview, thus proving that the judiciary may actually have nothing to do with providing justice.By opening this can of worms, Ali Zaidi has done a great service to the state. It has been a convenient tradition that all such vile acts are pushed under the rug as part of clandestine deal-making to save the perpetrators. Here is an opportunity for the judiciary to erase some ugly scars from its face and establish the writ of the state by punishing the guilty without exception, as also their partners, aiders and abettorsLet’s also understand that the JIT report was not released voluntarily by the government of Sindh. In the wake of the initiation of contempt proceedings in the Sindh High Court, it had virtually run out of all possible options. This was further necessitated when Ali Zaidi waved a copy of his version of the report in the National Assembly and read from it certain parts which implicated the PPP leaders in the Karachi crime spree. So the report may also have been released to control the damage which had thus been inflicted on the PPP and its leadership.This argument makes more sense if one views it in the context of difference/s between the reports released by the Sindh government and Ali Zaidi respectively. The main difference pertains to the people on whose orders Uzair Baloch committed murders and indulged in other monstrous acts. After naming Faryal Talpur, Qadir Patel, Zulfiqar Mirza, Nisar Morai, Yousaf Baloch, Sharjeel Memon among his friends, the report goes on to give a graphic description of how he committed innumerable heinous crimes on the instructions of these leaders.Interestingly, these details are also contained in the confessional statement of Uzair Baloch recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The statement encapsulates in detail his interactions with senior PPP leaders, and how he committed abominable crimes on their behest. He goes on to record that he even left the country on the instructions of Faryal Talpur.Now that, instead of one, we have landed up with two JIT reports, the challenge is to sort out which is genuine, or whether both are, except that one part was formally released by the government of Sindh and the other withheld to save the political careers of some of their party leaders. It can be said with a fair bit of certainty that the PPP would not do much further under the circumstances except reiterating that their version is the genuine one. But, this cannot be said about Ali Zaidi who would like to establish that his version is a bona fide part of a larger report which was not released by the Sindh government for fear of incurring political damage.Quite obviously, the report made public by Ali Zaidi cannot be construed as irrelevant. There is speculation regarding who is responsible for handing it over to him. The PPP stalwarts and their supporters in the media are insinuating that the intelligence agencies may be involved in order to increase pressure on the party. This is a conscious effort which is quite in keeping with the traditional narrative that they would like to build– to skilfully play the innocents who are being assaulted by the establishment in collusion with PTI. The reason that Ali Zaidi gave regarding how he got hold of the report may strengthen the perception further. At some point in time, this may need to be clarified.Now that the Sindh government version of the JIT report has been rendered doubtful, it is absolutely imperative that the case may be tried at some forum to skin the genuine from the fabricated and false. It is necessary for a number of reasons, the paramount one being that, for much too long now, facts have been hidden from the people of Pakistan, under one pretext or the other. In the present instance, it appears to be part of the stratagem of a political party to save the much-touted repute and honour of its leaders. The contents of Ali Zaidi’s version of the report establish that these leaders were involved in perpetrating some of the most detestable crimes in league with the likes of Uzair Baloch. If formally acclaimed as a legitimate part of the full report, it would not only diminish their political stature immensely, but would degrade them to the level of ruthless murderers, extortionists and land grabbers. That would be an immeasurable fall for these people whose involvement in multifaceted crime has not really been a secret.By opening this can of worms, Ali Zaidi has done a great service to the state. It has been a convenient tradition that all such vile acts are pushed under the rug as part of clandestine deal-making to save the perpetrators. Here is an opportunity for the judiciary to erase some ugly scars from its face and establish the writ of the state by punishing the guilty without exception, as also their partners, aiders and abettors.They must all be brought to justice. This report provides an occasion to establish the primacy of right over wrong, justice over injustice, accountability over lack of it and truth over falsehood.Above all else, people must know the real faces of the leaders they vote for."
Web Desk,Positive aspects of new federal budget,2020-07-10,"It was tough, but the budget had some good things tooBy: Muhammad Zahid RifatThere is no denying the that the federal budget for financial year 2020-21, which has already commenced on July 1 was formulated in the very unusual and difficult circumstances and conditions caused by the covid-19 pandemic which affected Pakistan as it did to countries around the world one after the other.Everything was going in the right direction, following the bold and necessary policy decisions of the Federal Government, economic recovery was on an upward trajectory, and there were encouraging positive signs of the stabilization of the national economy, which had been in the bad shape for some time. This was till March 2020, the third quarter of the outgoing financial year 2019-20. All this can be affirmed by the appreciable improvement in major economic indicators of the country during the first nine months of FY 2019.The current account deficit had reduced by 73 pe cent from $10 billion to $3 billion; the trade deficit had decreased by 31 percent from $21 billion to $15 billion; the fiscal deficit had reduced from 5 percent to 3.8 percent of the GDP; a primary surplus of 0.4 % of the GDP was achieved for the first time in 10 years; Federal Board of Revenue (FBR) revenue collection had increased by 17 per cent and the federal government was on the track to achieve the revised revenue generation target of Rs 4800 billion; Non-tax revenue had increased by as much as 134 per cent against the annual target of Rs 1161 billion; remittances back home from overseas Pakistanis had increased to $ 17 billion; Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) had almost been doubled from $ 0.9 billion to $ 2.15 billion.The new federal budget for financial year 2020-21, the second regular budget presentation by the PTI government, has undoubtedly been a crisis budget prepared under very unusual and difficult circumstances requiring a well-thought philosophy and approach by all concernedFurthermore, debt management had improved by shifting 74 percent of the domestic debt portfolio to long term, resulting in reduction of0 domestic borrowing rates from 14 percent to 10 percent besides a saving of Rs 240 billion. Due to the reforms introduced by the federal government , an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of $ 6 billion was approved by the International Monetary Fund (IMF); Only in December 2019, Bloomberg had ranked the Pakistan Stock Exchange as one of the top performing markets of the world; Moody’s rating was upgraded from B3-Negative to B3-Positive; Pakistan’s “Ease of Doing Business” ranking had improved, and; Significant progress was made on as many as 27 actionable items included in the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) action plan.And then came the attack of the covid-19 pandemic which has turned out to be a very severe global economic threat , having the potential of destabilizing the international economic system. Pakistan was no exception to the general disorder, as the corona virus adversely impacted the economy of the country, forcing the economic team managers to do fresh thinking and reset the targets for financial year 2020-21. The immediate economic repercussions of covid-19 for Pakistan during FY 2019-2020 are briefly indicated:The industry and the retail businesses all over Pakistan have been badly affected. Economic growth has been reduced by Rs 3 trillion bringing down the GDP growth projection from 3.3 percent to -0.4 percent. Projection of overall budget deficit has been revised upward from 7.1percent to 9.1 percent of GDP. FBR revenue loss has been projected at Rs 900 billion. Non-tax revenue of the federal government has been reduced by Rs 102 billion. Exports and remittances back home from Overseas Pakistanis have been badly Unemployment and poverty have increased. Large scale manufacturing and Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) have declined. Domestic tourism in Pakistan has stalled.The new federal budget for financial year 2020-21, the second regular budget presentation by the PTI government, has undoubtedly been a crisis budget prepared under very unusual and difficult circumstances requiring a well-thought philosophy and approach by all concerned.The federal government has positively stood up to the socio-economic challenge by reaching out to the vulnerable segments of the society and business community to neutralize the negative impact of lockdown and unemployment. The federal government has also given relief to the farmers community and daily wage earners, incentives have been provided to the construction sector for stimulating the national economy. and the State Bank of Pakistan has also introduced a number of initiatives for businesses to neutralize the negative impact of closure owing to persisting pandemic COVID-19.Following are the positive aspects and main features of the new federal budget philosophy briefly speaking:1.Striking a balance between Corona expenditure and fiscal deficit.2.Keeping the primary balance at sustainable level.Protection of social spending under the Ehsaas Programme to support the vulnerable segments of the society. Resource mobilization without unnecessary changes in tax structure. Successful continuation of the IMF programme. Carrying forward of the Stimulus Package of more than Rs 1200 billion. Keeping the development budget at an adequate level to stimulate economic growth of the country. Defence and internal security of the country has been given due importance in the prevailing circumstances and persisting hostile activities by India. Housing initiatives including Naya Pakistan Housing project have been funded. Funding for special areas, that is, erstwhile FATA (since merged in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) , Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Gilgit-Baltistan, has also been ensured for their development. The special initiatives led by the Prime Minister like Kamyab Jawan , Sehat Card, Billion Trees Tsunami, and so on, have also been protected. Austerity and rationalization of expenditures will be observed.13.The sSubsidy regime has been rationalized to provide targeted subsidy to the deserving segments of the society.The National Finance Commission (NFC) Award is to be revisited. More, the provinces will be asked to fulfill the funding commitment made at the time of the merger of erstwhile FATA."
Web Desk,Climate change denial in Pakistan,2020-07-10,"The deniers are all over the worldBy: Raja Ahmed SaeedIn this day and age, with climate change being on the tip of everyone’s tongue and becoming a topic of heated debate, it was about time this took centrestage in Pakistan as well. With increased awareness about climate change, and how to work towards reversing its catastrophic effects, there has also been an evident wave of denial and general disdain towards this notion. Unfortunately, while this isn’t something new, in the sense that even in so-called developed nations who are leading this battle for the reversal of climate change, a counter movement of naysayers has sprung up as well. In this piece I not only want to delve into the basic reasons of this denial, but also the depth of the psychology behind the thinking of deniers.One of the most common reasons is illiteracy, or the simple fact that they don’t know about climate change or the necessary details. This is due to a lack of focus, especially in Third-World countries, but there are so many more reasons, which include the fact that climate change sometimes clashes with a community’s understanding of the world, and shatters this bubble its members live in. There is a strong path dependency here, in terms of sticking to the ways they are used to over time.Borderline, it rubs them the wrong way, and it is plainly inconvenient to their world view. In purely psychological terms, the reaason for this sheer ignorance and misunderstanding is that people don’t want to revise their beliefs. Hence, even when they are presented with facts, they can’t seem to re-wire their thinking patterns to allow an unbiased entry into their decision making. Therefore, they mostly lead to basically the same conclusion that climate change is more exaggerated than it actually is, in terms of an existential threat. Sigmund Freud, a great writer on the complexities of human nature, has described this phenomenon as “a way of taking cognisance of what is repressed”. The nightmarish reality is in front of them, yet their beliefs take preference over rational thinking.The deniers can shift their views, since sometimes a simple bombardment of facts isn’t the greatest help. The actual difference can be made by the people; it’s a democracy after all. Our choices can help make the difference whether it is in terms of consuming, regulations or protest– at a distance of a minimum six feet, of courseAccording to research, strong prevalence of elements like hierarchy and status quo also plays a huge role, whereby poorer and less-scientific or dogmatic people are more likely to see all this as a sham. Political parties on the right generally are also to blame here, where instead of educating their base, and transforming them to move towards economically and greener jobs, they instead reinforce their views by remaining weak in election manifestos, all in an effort to just grab votes.Hence, instead of science taking precedence, political gains are seen as more sacred. The short-sightedness of the political leadership has allowed time to slip, while climate change has continued to become a greater threat to prospects of life on earth in any normal way. For instance, taking a look at the USA, one can see people heavily influenced by puritanical values, like in Pakistan, where wrong interpretation of religious understanding at the back of lack of education has allowed people in general to take lightly the extreme effects of climate change, and as a consequence, most people have described anthropogenic global heating as a normal course of action taken by nature, and not to be interfered with. Basically, it is a natural phenomenon, and it will manage itself on its own!In the face of this denial, and weak policy response by politicians in general– in both the developed and developing countries– a global trend of activism has picked up, at the back of increased interest in environmental politics. This army of climate activism is spearheaded by the youth, specifically the young girl who has the most powerful men shaking in their boots, Greta Thunberg. The youth has started to take responsibility for their planet, and the reason I’m stating all these facts is that this age difference is also evident in the deniers. The older generation, according to statistics, has proven to be set in its ways, and this has been a huge problem in meaningfully combating this fast evolving existential threat.Pakistan has seen increased effort in recent years in this regard, both in terms of spreading awareness, and tangible steps like extensive reforestation programs, and the likes of the Clean, Green Pakistan movement. However, this is not enough for a country that is expected to be among the top ten countries globally, to get most affected by climate change.Hence, important steps in this regard should include approaching the issue keeping in mind the social and psychological factors. Moreover, we need to diversify to reach all groups of society; one pitch with the same rehashed facts won’t work it needs to appeal to them; more effort needs to be put into making them understand. The deniers can shift their views, since sometimes a simple bombardment of facts isn’t the greatest help. The actual difference can be made by the people; it’s a democracy after all. Our choices can help make the difference whether it is in terms of consuming, regulations or protest– at a distance of a minimum six feet, of course. At the end of the day, though, this is not some clichéd cry for activism, but rather trying to give another viewpoint to furthering this movement of paramount importance."
Dr Rajkumar Singh,Pandemic and Indian unemployment in perspective,2020-07-10,"The young and women have suffered disproportionatelyMore than one in six young people have stopped working since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic while those who remain employed have seen their working hours cut by 23 percent. The current covid-19 economic crisis is hitting young people harder and faster than any other group. Young people have to face many hard situations, including disruption to education and training, employment and income losses, and greater difficulties in finding a job. The International Labour Organization uses the term “lockdown generation” to describe young people facing multiple shocks from the covid-19 crisis, including increased vulnerability to anxiety or depression. In the USA too “nearly 7.7 million American workers younger than 30 are now unemployed and three million dropped out of the labour force in the past month.” One in three young workers is now unemployed, the highest rate since the USA started tracking unemployment by age in 1948. Among these young people, nearly 40 percent worked in retail and food service industries, where younger workers are typically the first let go and often the last rehired. The situation is even worse for people of colour. An effective way to solve this problem is rigorous testing and tracing of coronavirus infections. In countries with strong testing and tracing, the average fall in working hours has been shorter when compared with countries that don’t take those measures. Testing and tracing can promote public confidence, encourages consumption, supports employment, and helps minimize operational disruption at the workplace.India has a jobs bloodbath as the unemployment rate shoots up to 27.1 percent. Scenes of migrants fleeing urban centres like Delhi and Mumbai only confirmed the long-held concerns on their employment as the economic activity came to a grinding halt. The government has so far announced income and food support to the vulnerable people as part of a Rs 1.70 trillion fiscal stimulus to the economic, financial and possibly humanitarian crisis, and is also mulling a second round of measures soonIn 2019, the youth unemployment rate was 13.6 percent, a figure already higher than in any other group. Almost 267 million young people worldwide are not employed, studying, or undergoing training. Those who were employed are also more likely to take informal jobs such as low-paid occupations, part-time jobs, or as migrant workers. The covid-19 pandemic is bringing unprecedented challenges in its wake. All governments should take effective measures to help this group. Guy Ryder, the ILO Director-General has rightly said, “If we do not take significant and immediate action to improve their (youth) situation, the legacy of the virus could be with us for decades. If their talent and energy is side-lined by a lack of opportunity or skills, it will damage all our futures and make it much more difficult to re-build a better, post-covid-19 economy.” Besides this, the economic downturn is likely to hit young women the hardest. A previous ILO report shows that 41 percent of women are employed in sectors at high risk of job losses, compared with 35 percent of men. Informal female workers are under greater threat. Society should be aware of how covid-19 is exacerbating challenges women habitually face. Promoting gender equality rights can play a key role in returning to normal.Labour market conditions improved in May as a number of people returned to work, despite the unemployment rate remaining “very high” at 23.5 percent, thinktank Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) said. A total 21 million jobs were added in May, and the labour participation rate improved significantly, CMIE said. The latest data on unemployment from the private sector think-tank comes days after the country entered the fifth phase of a nationwide lockdkown to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, which has battered an already-slowing economy in a big blow to businesses and workers. Of the 21 millionjobs added in May, 14.4 million constituted small traders and wage labourers who account for a third of the total employed population. As the economy has been opening up gradually in parts of the country, this predominantly self-employed class is returning to their businesses.As the economic situation improved slowly “A number of people who had left the active labour markets in April returned back in May. People who had left the labour market in April because of large-scale job losses had parked themselves in the passive unemployed category in May, many of them were back and actively looking for work,” as said by Mahesh Vyas, managing director and CEO of the Mumbai-based think-tank. The addition of 21 million jobs marked growth of 7.5 percent over April, whereas the jobs of small traders and wage labourers jumped 39 percent. The country’s unemployment rate stood at 23.5 percent in May 2020, which is the same rate recorded in the previous month. However, the labour participation rate– the total number of people currently employed or in search of a job– improved from 35.6 percent to 38.2 percent, and the employment rate improved from 27.2 percent to 29.2 percent, as per an estimate.The latest official data shows that the country’s gross domestic product (GDP) expanded 3.1 percent in January-March, reflecting only the partial impact of the COVID-19 lockdown on the manufacturing and services sectors. With that, the annual expansion in the GDP stood at 4.2 percent in fiscal year 2019-20– the lowest pace of growth in 11 years. The covid-19 crisis has led to a spike in the country’s unemployment rate to 27.11 per cent for the week ended May 3, up from the under 7 per cent level before the start of the pandemic in mid-March, accordingly to the CMIE. The rate of unemployment is also not equal in rural and urban areas. The thinktank said the rate of unemployment was the highest in the urban areas, which constitute the most number of the red zones due to the covid-19 cases, at 29.22 per cent, as against 26.69 per cent for the rural areas. Analysts have been warning about the spectre of unemployment ever since the country was put under a lockdown on March 25 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to arrest the spread of the virus infections.India has a jobs bloodbath as the unemployment rate shoots up to 27.1 percent. Scenes of migrants fleeing urban centres like Delhi and Mumbai only confirmed the long-held concerns on their employment as the economic activity came to a grinding halt. The government has so far announced income and food support to the vulnerable people as part of a Rs 1.70 trillion fiscal stimulus to the economic, financial and possibly humanitarian crisis, and is also mulling a second round of measures soon. Experts often rue the absence of a good gauge of jobs in India, which is predominantly an unorganised-sector led economy. CMIE’s weekly series of data pointed to a steady increase in unemployment since the start of the covid-19 pandemic in India, with the week to March 29 showing the sharpest spike to 23.81 percent. As of the end of April, Puducherry in South India had the highest rate of unemployment at 75.8 percent, followed by neighbouring Tamil Nadu at 49.8 percent, Jharkhand at 47.1 percent and Bihar at 46.6 percent. Maharashtra’s unemployment rate was pegged at 20.9 percent by the CMIE, while the same for Haryana stood at 43.2 percent, Uttar Pradesh at 21.5 percent and Karnataka at 29.8 per cent. Hilly states had the lowest incidence of unemployment as of April, the think tank said, pointing out that the rate in Himachal Pradesh stood at 2.2 percent, I in Sikkim at 2.3 percent and in Uttarakhand at 6.5 pe cent."
M A Niazi,Two elephants are fighting,2020-07-09,"Pakistan is not in a good placeAT PENPOINTThe recent clash between India and China in Ladakh highlighted that these two Asian giants are growing increasingly abrasive even in the midst of a global pandemic mainly because of the offstage presence of the USA.The pandemic has constrained both countries. China is the Ground Zero for the pandemic, the place where it all began. And while it has managed to bring the initial outbreak under control, there has been at least one other outbreak, in Beijing itself, which means that the pandemic will have to be a consideration during any conflict. India is even worse off, for it has already exceeded the number of Chinese cases. It has nearly reached 1,000,000 cases, and is already behind only the USA and Brazil. It has had 20,000 deathsThere is the additional constraint that both are nuclear powers. This implies that any conflict between the two could escalate to the point where it crossed the nuclear threshold. It is perhaps not understood how important a restraint this is. It is the biggest difference between the present and the 1962 War. At that time, neither country had a nuclear weapon. That conflict certainly played an important role in making both countries obtain nuclear weapons, with China conducting its first nuclear test in 1964 and India in 1975. Not only is nuclear war a strict no-no, but China has twice recently taken the lead in keeping the peace between Pakistan and India. That it did because it agreed that the world could not have its peace risked by a nuclear war between the two. All the more less will it be able to resist any pleas that are made to preserve the peace. Also, it should not be forgotten that the Indian nuclear deterrent was made operational in 1998 to counter the Chinese capability. The powers that worked so frenetically to stop an Indo-Pak conflict will be that much more exercised about the possibility of a Sino-Indian conflict. True, both sides have a no-first-use policy, but how long such policies survive conventional reverses on the battlefield is not just anybody’s guess, but is academic. The Ladakh clash was an isolated incident, but it was the kind of reverse which could cause a panicked commander to have nuclear weapons used.India is not let by rational calculators, but by saffron hotheads. Unfortunately, the lesson they learnt from last year’s war scare, fake surgical strikes and all, was that Pakistan-bashing gets votes. Only Bihar goes to the polls this year, but the BJP wants control of this state. The electoral calculus does not look goodPart of the problem is that both countries have political leaders out to make a point. Chinese President Xi Jinping is a leader with a difference, who sees himself as defining an era, not just forming part of a chain. One sign is that he has abolished the term limit for the Presidency, thus making it possible for him to remain in office for longer than the five years that has been standard between Deng Xiaoping and himself. One sign of his rule, which is more personal than collective as in the past, has been a new assertiveness about Chinese borders. That is reflected in the maritime disputes that China is developing with the USA in the South China Sea over the Spratly and the Senkaku\Diaoyu Islands north of Taiwan over which Japan claims sovereignty, in turn underwritten by the USA.This is perhaps the nub of the US-China confrontation, for the essence of being a great power is power projection far beyond one’s land boundaries, such as the USA is carrying out. Another essential part of being a great power is having secure coasts, which China does not have, because the US Navy retains the ability to operate off its coast. China has a more practical issue that it wants to guarantee oil supplies from the Middle East. This is eerily reminiscent of the Japanese compulsion, before Pearl Harbor, of guaranteeing oil supplies, which the USA would not allow it to do, having imposed an oil embargo on it, with respect to oil it was importing from the Dutch East Indies, as Indonesia was then.The USA and China are presently in the process of competing for leadership of the world. The USA is in the process of giving way, but it is not giving up without a fight. It has taken advantage of the collapse of the USSR to win over India, but this has caused its formerly ‘most-allied ally’, Pakistan, to be driven towards China.The present situation is thus fraught with problems for Pakistan. There is apparently no choice between China, with which it has so many decades of friendship, and India. At the same time, it has to ask itself whether it wishes to say goodbye to the US alliance. Pakistan played a significant role in the initial US outreach to China, when Richard Nixon visited it. However, as that halcyon moment of Pakistan proving its worth was followed by 1971, and US acquiescence to the creation of Bangladesh, it seems that loyalty was not rewarded.It should not be forgotten that Sino-Indian problems predate the Partition, and the 1962 War was caused by a boundary demarcation dispute that took place between the British Indian Empire and the Manchu Empire of China. The dispute was kept quiet when China became a Republic in 1911, when India gained Independence in 1947, and China became a People’s Republic in 1949. Initially, with India growing closer to the USSR (under the influence of the Fabian Socialist Jawaharlal Nehru), and Communist China a firm Soviet ally, the countries were friends enough for Nehru and Mao Zedong to co-found the Non-Aligned Movement at the 1955 Bandung Conference (along with Nkrumah of Ghana, Sukarno of Indonesia and Nasser of Egpyt).However, an important factor was China’s increasing distance from the post-Stalinist USSR, with which India however, seemed comfortable, as symbolized in the exchange of visits between Nehru and Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev in 1955 (straddling Bandung). This meant that the USSR would not support China in its border problems with India, and it did not in 1962.It should perhaps not be forgotten that that war allowed the USA to get friendly with India, because when it was faced with a horrible defeat in a war which had seen the Chinese get the better of the Indians, it was only the threat of US intervention that held the Chinese back. Again, it is US support that is behind Indian cockiness.That cockiness is part of an Indian attitude. Pakistani policymakers do not want to have to choose between China and the USA, but they might have to. If taking the US side means being on India’s side, then the decision makers will perhaps be left with no option. That is not a good place to be. As the African proverb has it, when two elephants fight, it is the grass that is trampled.India is not led by rational calculators, but by saffron hotheads. Unfortunately, the lesson they learnt from last year’s war scare, fake surgical strikes and all, was that Pakistan-bashing gets votes. Only Bihar goes to the polls this year, but the BJP wants control of this state. The electoral calculus does not look good."
Ihsaan Afzal Khan,The monster of circular debt,2020-07-09,"Pakistan’s power sector shows that the nation experiences transmission losses, high tariffs, absence of planning and improper policies. These escalate the energy crisis. This crisis in Pakistan is the immediate aftereffect of institutional and administration governance failure in the form of reckless energy policies. This demands an answer to a question that what has been the effect of the ventures from the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), with its highly invested power projects, on the energy crisis? There are 22 CPEC energy projects, of which many have become operational now. The previous regime has taken the nation out of this long prevailing energy shortfall but the miscarried policies of the incumbent regime are leading us to the past again. I believe that the liquidity constraints in the energy sector, is one of the main reasons which have led to fall in power generation. Power generation companies are managing their cash flows by reducing their output and increasing the tariffs to a higher level.At the point when the PTI government took the charge, the circular debt was at Rs 1.1 trillion after the caretaker government completed its tenure. However, it was just less than Rs1 trillion when the PML(N) government completed its tenure with Shahid Khaqan Abbasi as prime minister. It has now swelled to nearly Rs 2.1 trillion. This shows that the sitting government has piled up more than Rs 1 trillion in circular debt which belies all the claims of the government. It has almost increased twofold the circular debt accumulated in the last 72 years. The IMF has also expressed its sheer dismay over the massive increase of circular debt, even though the current regime itself is working on IMF dictations.THE reasons behind the increasing circular debt are many but a few crucial ones will be discussed. FIRSTLY, the main reason of circular debt in power sector is that power purchase cost is a passthrough item. Various governments at different points have not allowed the power purchase cost to be recovered from consumers. This pass-on has resulted in the gap in electricity bill and payment made, for example, quarterly adjustment & FPA cost to be passed. This part in circular debt is caused by discrepancies between the government-notified tariff and market rates caused by delays in government adjustments to the tariff and fuel price adjustments. Secondly, the other key reason is unpaid subsidies from federal/provincial governments to DISCOs (power distributing companies). As a result, distributors are unable to pay producers, who further find it difficult to pay for the fuel cost and the process keeps on going amounting to huge burden on GENCOS and DISCOS.By curbing all discussed issues, we would able to reduce electricity prices. It would benefit us in the global market. It would pave the way for a reduction in the cost of doing business and make Pakistani products more competitive in the global market. Addressing the circular debt issue, we can restore a part of the loss in the power generation sectorThirdly, the gap of tax collection is increasing because the GST is collected on the basis of billing and recovery of the sector is far below 100 percent recovery. Furthermore, the Federal Board of Revenue (FBR) has made a practice of always keep on making cases on trumped-up charges and then to effect recoveries in these cases by attaching accounts of the DISCOS. Dilatory practices in FBR have equally affected the DISCOS’ finances as FBR has not refunded their tax refund claims. Fourthly, transmission and distribution constraints are also causing high losses in certain areas. Until these constraints of distribution networks are lowered and distributions mechanisms are upgraded, the energy crisis is unlikely to ease.This regime seems not in control of the situation and is leading us to a power crisis again. If one accumulates the data, he/she would find that around 2 percent of Pakistan’s economic growth shrinks by power crisis annually. The successful projects of CPEC initiated by the PML (N) regime, in which the significant share of the investments was allocated toward reinvigorating Pakistan’s electric power sector, are nowhere in the priority list of the PTI regime. They should be carefully monitored by the incumbent government so that their success cannot be undermined.Since the PTI government came into the power, electricity tariffs have been expanded by around half. Sick policies have led to accumulation of circular debt and regrettably nobody is attempting to control the danger. Once a energy-starved country, industrial consumption of units has actually dropped in the last two years, where demand projections have slowed due to the economic situation of the country, resulting in a capacity trap.At various instances the Minister in charge had announced to bring down the circular debt to Rs 100 billion by June 2020. The PTI had announced reforms in this sector, but there is absolutely zero movement toward any reform agendas. As the outcome, this hazard has put more weight on consumers by way of frequent upward revision in electricity tariffs. Besides, there is massive electricity theft and apart from individuals, industrial and commercial sectors, some institutions are also involved in the crime in certain areas of Pakistan. By curbing all discussed issues, we would able to reduce electricity prices. It would benefit us in the global market. It would pave the way for a reduction in the cost of doing business and make Pakistani products more competitive in the global market. Addressing the circular debt issue, we can restore a part of the loss in the power generation sector."
Sultan M Hali,Propaganda about coercive family planning against Uyghurs,2020-07-09,"China not only handled the onslaught of the novel coronavirus COVID-19 successfully but earned the respect and esteem of numerous countries of the world by extending help and support to combat the pandemic. Chinese economy took some battering due to the scourge of the epidemic but is bouncing back to normalcy. Whereas most international organizations including the World Health Organization (WHO) lauded China’s selfless efforts, some detractors chose to target Beijing with baseless charges. They initially claimed that China was not transparent in sharing information about COVID-19, now they are targeting China’s soft underbelly Xinjiang.A decade ago, due to various reasons, Xinjiang was underdeveloped and deprived of the economic boom of China. The impoverished Uyghur Muslims, who comprise the majority population of Xinjiang were insidiously instigated into protesting as well as launching terror attacks. China handled the challenge prudently. Dealing with the terror mongers firmly as well as removing the causes of heartburn by launching massive development projects to provide the ethnic minorities of China including the Uyghurs with employment opportunities to raise their quality of life.Once that issue was taken care of, the conscientious objectors, who wanted to pull China down, raised the bogey of torture cells in Xinjiang, where the Uyghurs are alleged to being subjected to torment and brainwashing. China invited international diplomats and academics, including this scribe to visit and judge for themselves the veracity of the situation. The propaganda was thus nailed.Now China’s disparagers have launched a fresh propaganda campaign claiming that abortion, and coercive family planning against Uyghurs and other minorities in Xinjiang is being carried out as part of a continuing campaign of repression.China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs Spokesperson Zhao Lijian, a polished and suave diplomat was queried regarding this allegation. His response was measured and in accordance with diplomatic nuances. He asserted that the Chinese government equally protects the legitimate rights and interests of people of all ethnic groups, including ethnic minorities. In fact, China’s population policy has long been leaning toward ethnic minorities. From 1978 to 2018, the population of Uyghurs in Xinjiang grew from 5.55 million to 11.68 million, registering a 2.1 times increase and accounting for about 46.8 percent of the total population of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.The statistics of the Uyghur population growth belies the baseless charge of forced family planning. Moreover, the European Union recently criticized the human rights situation in Xinjiang at the UN Human Rights Council but 46 countries in a joint statement voiced their support for China’s position and measures on Xinjiang, expressed appreciation for China’s remarkable achievements in human rights, and reaffirmed their opposition to the practice of politicizing human rights issues.When Zhao Lijian was asked to comment on the issue, his reply was that since the previous year, in response to several countries’ practice of hyping up Xinjiang-related human rights matters on multilateral occasions, a large number of friendly nations and developing countries have been voicing their support for China’s achievements in counter-terrorism and deradicalization in Xinjiang as well as measures to guarantee the human rights of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang according to law, and their opposition to interference in China’s internal affairs under the pretext of human rights. In the latest UNHRC session, 46 countries overwhelmingly reaffirmed their support for China’s Xinjiang policy in a joint statement. The attempt of several Western countries to smear China failed again.Lijian, who has served with dignity at the Chinese Embassy in Islamabad as the Deputy Head of the Mission, pointed out that Xinjiang-related issues are not about human rights, ethnicity or religion as some forces claim, but about countering violence, terrorism and separatism. Faced with severe challenges of violence and terrorism, the Chinese government took a series of anti-terrorism and deradicalization measures in Xinjiang to combat these activities and prevent their recurrence, which address both the symptoms and their root causes. Those measures, in compliance with Chinese laws, are China’s concrete and effective steps in implementing international initiatives on counter-terrorism and deradicalization. Thanks to them, Xinjiang hasn’t seen a single terror incident over the past three years or so, and people’s rights to life, health and development have been effectively safeguarded. It is universally acknowledged by the international community that China has contributed to the global human rights cause and counter-terrorism efforts.The Foreign Office Spokesperson assured that China will continue working with all sides to make sure multilateral human rights mechanisms remain committed to the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, deal with human rights issues in an objective, impartial and non-selective manner, and promote the sound development of international human rights cause through constructive dialogue and cooperation. He reiterated that China opposes interference in other countries’ internal affairs under the pretext of human rights, and urge countries concerned to change course, rejects politicization and double standards, and stops interfering in other countries’ domestic affairs under the disguise of human rights.It was elaborated by Lijian that the so-called “forced labor” is just a concoction by some US and Western institutions and personnel. Nothing could be further from the truth. The rights and interests of workers from ethnic minority groups in Xinjiang as part of China’s large workforce are protected by law. They are free to choose a profession and can decide on where to work of their own free will. There is no restriction whatsoever on their personal freedom. Their customs, religious beliefs and spoken and written language are all protected by law. Relevant enterprises provide good living and working conditions for ethnic minority workers and make sure all their needs are attended to. The government of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region takes active measures to guarantee to the maximum the right to work and employment of people from all ethnic groups based on their own will. According to statistics on hand, since 2018, altogether 151,000 people from impoverished households in southern Xinjiang found employment away from home, with many earning an annual income of 45,000 RMB. Thanks to the income, all their families got out of poverty. How can anyone call this “forced labor”?This scribe has toured the length and breadth of Xinjiang and has been visiting the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region since 1974 and is an eyewitness to the transformation of the once backward region into a moderately modern state. There was a time when curfew was imposed and post sunset entertainment was curbed but now the people of Xinjiang are living peacefully, enjoying the benefits of modern living. A tour of Xinjiang last year presented stark contrasts from earlier visits. Previously there was no night life, the sidewalks along commercial centers were fenced, shoppers could only enter through security gates. Because of improved security conditions, the fences have been removed, at night we saw thousands of Chinese of all ages and minority groups dancing in the square. We used the newly installed Urumqi Metro, which is both modern and efficient. These are visible signs of tranquility returning to Xinjiang; a far cry from the negative propaganda."
Web Desk,Khan: the measure of a leader,2020-07-09,"By Syed Mohammad Wajih ZafarPakistanis have longed for a country free of crime and corruption. They have been gripped in the plague of evil and malpractices that have been made ever so common by the mafias and ruling elite for too long. Perhaps the Pakistani generations Y and Z have never breathed in corruption-free air. They are aloof to Pakistan envisioned by our Great Jinnah. For too long have these mafias plundered and looted all state institutions, so much so that the newer generation thinks it’s normal. A very apt case in point here would be the infamous dialogue used commonly by defenders of corruption of past governments; “khata hai par lagata bhi to hai”. The admittance of corruption is appalling. The masses have been fooled. They have been drugged into a political delusion by reminiscing of leaders of the past in false hope of future progress. The naïve folk on this politically misguided bandwagon chant that their leaders are still alive. This can be best compared to the “Pied Piper of Hamelin”. A German folk tale where rats were led to drowning in a river simply because they liked what they heard.Imran Khan, on the other hand, is nothing like his predecessors. There is no false hope. There is no political delusion. There is no spell cast on the masses. What distinguishes this man from the rest is his vision. With a view as clear as a polished crystal, Khan is steering a ship previously headed in the heart of the disaster. In his mission to steer that ship away from the mess, he plans to rid the country of corruption and introduce accountability like never before. This has indeed created panic and fear in the enemy’s camps. It has caused some to flee the country. Others have forged and fabricated their financial records while a few have bought time under the pretext of depreciating health. One must understand that to introduce accountability one must hold themselves accountable as an example which is why Khan was very vocal about beginning the “ehtisaab” process with himself. This is a testament to Khan’s unshakeable courage and solid character.Next comes his consistency of view and mission. A few truthful ones before him might have had the same strategy. They might have had the same intention. But Khan’s perseverance level remained unmatched to theirs; miles above. There are tens of thousands of examples of people in positions of power in history that had the right vision but gave up too soon because of obstacles and challenges that came their way. They succumbed to pressure. They gave in to unfavorable positions they were put in by their enemies. Some may have sold themselves to bribe. Some might have taken back their words in fear of losing their vote banks. For Khan, none mattered. He decided to take the turbulent path. A rocky road but one that surely leads to beautiful heaven. Truth is what matters and it is evident from his actions and statements that he is not one to back down. Had there been any lack of clarity in vision, PTI and Imran Khan would have shown it in the last 2 years as this is ample time to expose frailty. However, with his steadfastness, we are reminded time and time again of his unwavering resolve. This resolve of his which we talk about so casually has been put to test many times. It has not been a smooth ride so far and it doesn’t seem like it will get comfortable for Khan anytime soon.A prime example of Khan’s oneness in vision are his successful Covid-19 countering policies. How he attained equilibrium between economic upkeep whilst fighting Coronavirus is an art. It was/is a balancing act, again a quality only possessed by a leader. During a pandemic, all economies go into turmoil. This is not just true for Pakistan but the world over. Knowing the back-up treasury does not provide much cushion to revive economic conditions, Khan knew from the start that he had to walk a very narrow path and not deviate. Initially, he was accused of his reluctance on total lockdown. Opposition and anti-government voices blamed him for not caring much about the loss of life. Later he was accused by the same of steering the nation in an economic crisis. But Khan didn’t let these baseless sweeping statements become hindrances in the plan he had chalked out in the beginning. Today, Coronavirus tallies are reducing whereas businesses are opening. The critics, however, are quiet. Probably, or dare I say, hopefully out of sheer embarrassment.The opposition he faces is one that will go any length to defame him. Whenever they run out of things to say about him, they resort to his team. They misconstrue facts and present them in a way which appeals to those against him only. The opposition has on many occasions unified and tried to take him down with all sorts of allegations. Maulana Fazlur Rehman in the year 2019 had locked down Islamabad as a protest demanding Khan’s resignation. Though he took initiative, he was later joined by other opposition party leaders albeit their participation was more ceremonial. This was/is also termed as the Pakistani Opposition’s Long March Against Imran Khan’s Government. Despite the march, Khan did not budge in his stance and lived up to his repute. Experts say that the opposition decided to unify as more and more politicians came under Khan’s accountability microscope. They had never shown oneness of this sort throughout recent history as there was never any accountability pressure of this scale. As a result of Khan’s firm stance on the issue, currently, all key leaders of the country’s mainstream political parties have either been imprisoned or are facing corruption charges. Khan’s vision lies in eliminating all evil once and for all in order for any progress to take place in the coming years.We have longed for 7 decades for a leader like Khan. Education is one of Khan’s core values, however, it is what an average Pakistani has been deprived of for decades. This has resulted in them not understanding that in order to progress, all previous wrongs must be undone. Next, we must understand that putting an end to corrupt practices that have totaled Pakistan consistently through the years, is a hard-fought battle. It requires patience and perseverance only found in a leader. Despite the hurls, the abuses, the false allegations, one needs to not lose sight of the eventual goal which is a peaceful and prosperous corruption-free Pakistan which as stated earlier, our younger generation has yet to experience. Let’s give them that privilege.The writer is a political analyst and can be reached at [email protected]"
Dr Farid A Malik,SOPs can make a difference,2020-07-08,"One benfit of the pandemic has been familiarization with SOPsThe crusade against the coronavirus continues. One good outcome of the current pandemic are the SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures ). Now everyone has been introduced to the importance of this concept. With KPIs ( Key Performance Indicators ), SOPs to meet them and effective accountability against these SOPs most organizations can be corrected. The newly formed National Command Operation Center ( NCOC )under the Chairmanship of Asad Umar and technical guidance of Dr Faisal Sultan, an infectious disease specialist and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Shaukat Khanum Hospital, are leading the crusade against the spread of the life-threatening coronavirus. Both are established professionals in their own fields. While Asad rose in the ranks of the corporate world following the footsteps of two very able leaders, Shaukat Mirza and Asif Qadir, Dr Faisal has managed the hospitals well under the leadership of Imran Khan and technical guidance of Dr Nausherwan Burki. I have yet to confirm who introduced the application of SOPs into the non-performing administrative machinery of the country, but the NCOC is effective because of the use of this management tool.That is where we have erred in the land of the pure though we started off well. As the first-born free generation of Pakistan, we have seen both the rise and fall of our own nation in our lifetime. Some radical steps have to be taken before we lose the next generation. In the absence of SOPs and accountability most civilian institutions in the country have ceased to function. While I am sympathetic to the retirees, I think the serving bureaucracy should neither be paid nor allowed perks as they function only on the basis of pay for service. The rule being no gratification no delivery. Rates should be fixed for all procedures in order to avoid multiple expenditures, delays and embarrassment. My father the fighter left this world fighting against these bureaucratic abuses leaving 20 court cases for me to follow,as he would not let go an injustice. Learning from his ordeal I tried to avoid litigation but finally fell into the trap as I did not grease the palms of the concerned officials.SOPs, together with accountability, is the only way forward. The bureaucracy as always will resist. In Persian there is a saying, “If the choice is between death and ailment, almost everyone will choose the latter”. For the health of the tormented people of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan such an ultimatum has to be served to the non-performing, spiritless colonial bureaucracy by the elected Prime Minister of Pakistan. The NCOC has set the trend, and focus should now be on SOPs and more SOPs in all government departmentsNow the struggle goes on I will prevail in the end but not before being badly bruised. The case had been settled and the decision announced in my favour. I kept getting calls from the staff of the officer to see them. On my insistence that I would visit the office to collect the copy of the decision, the settled case was reopened and placed into scrutiny. I was taught a lesson for being upright and not following their system of gratification.Yes we started off well in August 1947 as there was spirit to serve. Though we inherited a colonial system of governance which gave discretionary powers to the bureaucracy with almost no accountability, the officers and staff worked with honesty and zeal to serve the in new land. Jobs were taken seriously with no misuse of perks, merit prevailed both in hiring and promotions. As the task was challenging, the focus was on running the departments, so not much attention was paid towards reforms. Modern management tools were widely ignored. The Cornelius Commission in the early 1960s was the first serious attempt to create a balance between the rulers and the ruled. Two members of the bureaucracy sabotaged the effort by leaking its findings before its application and the bureaucrats were able to operate without accountability which has continued till today.The elected government of Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto introduced the current grade structure ( Grade 1 to 22 ) together with the induction of technocrats through lateral entry to make the system more efficient. The founding fathers of the bureaucracy mostly retired in the 1980s, and with their departure the spirit of service was also lost. Then came the Zia dark ages that destroyed all civilian institutions and worked against the masses and merit.With no spirit to serve left in the administrative machinery and in the absence of SOPs and accountability, the system became totally non-functional. Since the 1980s the decline has continued unabated and unchecked. The civil administration today is in the firm grip of mafias. The Sharifs in their long stints in power created a ‘Darbari System’ where the bureaucracy was served with out-of-turn promotions and enhanced salaries and perks for their compliance. Without major reforms of the system, honesty alone will not deliver. Transitions are never easy and must be carefully planned and implemented to take on the mafias that have been in control for decades.As a matter of policy all government procedures should have SOPs, violation of which can then be checked through accountability. The colonial powers of discretion have to be done away with. Public should have access to these SOPs which they can then follow to get the job done. Such a system was introduced in the 1970s for obtaining passports. Till that time it was almost impossible to get a passport without the attestation of a Class I gazetted officer. Qayyum Khan as Interior Minister introduced two SOPs, one for getting a National Identity Card (NIC ) and the other for passports. For the NIC, filled forms were given to the local postman who verified the contents and then forwarded them to the department, cards were then delivered by mail to the applicant. Similarly passport forms with copy of the NIC were submitted by mail to the Passport Office which was required to make them ready within 14 days. I followed both the SOPs. I received a letter from the Passport Office asking me to collect my passport in person. I wrote back asking them to mail the same as per the SOPs as I was busy with my final year engineering studies. Prompt came the reply, requesting me to visit the office just once for verification with the promise that my time would not be wasted. As it was a request, I complied and got my first document to travel within 15 minutes. I used this passport to travel to the USA for higher studies in 1979, and the rest is history, as they say.SOPs, together with accountability, is the only way forward. The bureaucracy as always will resist. In Persian there is a saying, “If the choice is between death and ailment, almost everyone will choose the latter”. For the health of the tormented people of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan such an ultimatum has to be served to the non-performing, spiritless colonial bureaucracy by the elected Prime Minister of Pakistan. The NCOC has set the trend, and focus should now be on SOPs and more SOPs in all government departments. Well done,Asad Umar and Dr Faisal Sultan for bringing us into the 21st century."
Amjed Jaaved,Which LAC or status quo?,2020-07-08,"Indias record is not encouragingThe post-Galwan joint statement resolves that the LAC and status quo shall be abided by. In the past also similar statements have been made. For instance, India’s external-affairs spokesman Anurag Srivastava said as much at a press conference in June: `Respecting and strictly observing the Line of Actual Control is the basis for peace and tranquility in the border areas and explicitly recognized so in the 1993 and subsequent agreements. Indian troops are fully familiar with the alignment of the LAC in all sectors of the India-China border areas and abide scrupulously by it.’China and India have divergent perceptions of the LAC. Flanked by Pakistan’s prime minister, before a meeting at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China’s President Xi Jinping said it opposed India’s “unilateral actions” in Kashmir and called for a dialogue.The India-China border is divided into three sectors, where the LAC in the western sector falls in the union territory of Ladakh and is 1597 km long, the middle sector of 545 km length falls in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, and the 1346 km long eastern sector falls in the states of Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. The middle sector is the least disputed sector, while the western sector witnesses the highest transgressions between the two sides.How is the LAC different from the Line of Control with Pakistan? One could peek into Indian mind through books such as Shivshankar Menon’s Choices: Inside the Making of India’s Foreign Policy, Shyam Saran’s How India Sees the World, and A G Noorani’s India-China Boundary Problem 1846-1947.It is a common misperception that the LAC is more sacrosanct than the LoC. For instance, India’s prestigious Indian Express explained `The LoC emerged from the 1948 ceasefire line negotiated by the UN after the Kashmir War. It was designated as the LoC in 1972, following the Shimla Agreement between the two countries. It is delineated on a map signed by DGMOs of both armies and has the international sanctity of a legal agreement. The LAC, in contrast, is only a concept – it is not agreed upon by the two countries, neither delineated on a map nor demarcated on the ground.A buffer zone is a temporary measure to ward off conflict with China. A permanent solution lies in resolving the Kashmir dispute. Pending a final settlement, softening the borders appears to be need of the hour to mitigate suffering of the KashmirisThe newspaper asks `what was India’s response to China’s designation of the LAC?’. It then explains India rejected the concept of LAC in both 1959 and 1962. Even during the 1962 war, Nehru was unequivocal: “There is no sense or meaning in the Chinese offer to withdraw 20 kilometres from what they call ‘line of actual control’… In July 1954, Nehru issued a directive that “all our old maps dealing with this frontier should be carefully examined and, where necessary, withdrawn. New maps should be printed showing our Northern and North Eastern frontier without any reference to any ‘line’. The new maps should also be sent to our embassies abroad and should be introduced to the public generally and be used in our schools, colleges, etc”. This map, as is officially used till date, formed the basis of dealings with China, eventually leading to the 1962 War’ (Indian Express, June 6).There are genuine differences on border ‘perception’ that intermittently lead to face-offs. India considers the LAC to be 3,488 km long, while the Chinese consider it to be only around 2,000 km.Shyam Saran discloses that the LAC was discussed during Chinese Premier Li Peng’s 1991 visit to India, where PM P V Narasimha Rao and Li reached an understanding to maintain peace and tranquillity at the LAC. India formally accepted the concept of the LAC when Rao paid a return visit to Beijing in 1993 and the two sides signed the Agreement to Maintain Peace and Tranquillity at the LAC.The reference to the LAC was unqualified to make it clear that it was not referring to the LAC of 1959 or 1962 but to the LAC at the time when the agreement was signed. To reconcile the differences about some areas, the two countries agreed that the Joint Working Group on the border issue would take up the task of clarifying the alignment of the LAC.It appears India is short on fulfilling its promises, be they related to the LOC/LAC or plebiscite.Resolution of border disputes with China is intertwined with resolution of the Kashmir dispute. Aside from India’s atoot ang some mantra, China and Pakistan regard Ladakh as part of the disputed Jammu and Kashmir State.At heart, Jawaharlal Nehru did not care a fig for the LAC, or for the disputed state’s constituent assembly, Indian Parliament or the UN. This truth is interspersed in Avtar Singh Bhasin’s 10-volume documentary study of India-Pakistan Relations, 1947-2007.It gave new perspectives on Nehru’s vacillating state of mind on Kashmir. In his 2018 book India, Pakistan: Neighbours at Odds, Bhasin discusses Nehru’s perfidy on Kashmir. Let us lay bare a few of Nehru’s somersaults:Nehru banked on the Instrument of Accession and its authentication by `Constituent Assembly’. In a letter dated 31 October 1947 to the disputed state’s prime minister, on the fourth day of the ‘signing’ of the mythical accession instrument on October 26, he says ‘after consideration of the problem, we are inclined to think that it [plebiscite] should be held under United Nations’ auspices.’He reiterated in New Delhi on 3 November 1951 that “we have made it perfectly clear before the Security Council that the Kashmir Constituent Assembly does not [insofar] as we are concerned come in the way of a decision by the Security Council, or the United Nations”. Again, at a press conference on 11 June 1951, he was asked `if the proposed constituent assembly of Kashmir “decides in favour of acceding to Pakistan, what will be the position?”’ he reiterated, ‘We have made it perfectly clear that the Constituent Assembly of Kashmir was not meant to decide finally any such question , and it is not in the way of any decision which may ultimate flow from the Security Council proceedings’. He re-emphasised his view once again at a press conference in New Delhi on November 3, SAYING, “We have made it perfectly clear before the Security Council that the Kashmir Constituent Assembly does not [insofar as] we are concerned come in the way of a decision by the Security Council or the United Nations.”Bhasin points out ‘there was a perceptible shift in his [Nehru’s] stand on July 24 1952’ about the future of the State– if the decision of the Security Council was at variance with that of the Constituent Assembly’.Nehru said, “Unless the Security Council functioned under some other Sections of the Charter, it cannot take a decision which is binding upon us unless we agree to it.”Bhasin points out `At the same press conference on 24 July, 1952 when asked what the necessity of plebiscite was now that he had got the Constituent Assembly, he replied “Maybe theoretically you may be right. But we have given them an assurance and we stand by it.”If Kashmir is India’s integral part, what is the United Nations’ Military Observers’ Group on India Pakistan doing on LOC since 24 January 1949?Besides being a geographical dispute, the Kashmir dispute has a human rights dimension. Even the Simla accord does not repeal the UN resolutions and Kashmiris’ right to self-determination.India does not own the LOC or LAC. It shrugs off UN resolutions or Simla Accord. Then will it abide by the LAC or status quo?A buffer zone is a temporary measure to ward off conflict with China. A permanent solution lies in resolving the Kashmir dispute. Pending a final settlement, softening the borders appears to be need of the hour to mitigate suffering of the Kashmiris.If a broad solution is not hammered out, then, still, there are two solutions- a nuclear holocaust or, perhaps divine intervention."
Qudssia Akhlaque,A pariah state’s pariah national carrier,2020-07-08,"We asked for itFor years we knew it was coming. That our national flag carrier was going downhill but successive governments conveniently looked the other way, making matters worse. The last nail in PIA’s coffin was virtually hammered in by our Aviation Minister’s sweeping declaration about ‘dubious’ and ‘fake’ pilot licenses that has had disastrous ramifications.After the 9/11 terror attacks in the USA, Pakistan was reduced to a pariah state and faced diplomatic isolation. For long we suffered international clamour about Pakistan being ‘a safe haven’ for terrorists and ‘epicentre’ of terrorism. Discovery of the ‘most wanted’ Al-Qaeda leaders in Pakistan, including Osama Bin Laden, weakened our case on the global stage besides causing huge embarrassment. There were endless reports in international media (often planted and leaked) questioning Pakistan’s credentials as a responsible nuclear state. The fear that our nuclear weapons could ‘fall in the wrong hands’ was a constant refrain in the international security and foreign policy circles. Pakistan feverishly fought on the diplomatic front to undo this perception by building a counter-narrative. To establish Pakistan’s credibility as a responsible nuclear state has been a major foreign policy challenge for almost two decades.Fast forward to year 2020. Pakistan is in the midst of an unprecedented civil aviation scandal that has grabbed screaming headlines in the international media. The PIA swan song was recently rendered by PTI’s Aviation Minister Ghulam Sarwar Khan, also its composer-in-chief!PIA has for the longest time been plagued by issues of merit violation, nepotism and political interference in key appointments. As a consequence, professionalism, maintenance of the ageing, ailing PIA fleet, and above all flight safety standards, remain largely compromisedThe Minister inaccurately pronounced on the floor of the National Assembly last month that 262 of the Pakistani airline pilots, almost a third of the total, had fake degrees or dubious licenses. It generated shockwaves across the global aviation industry with grave consequences for all Pakistani commercial airlines. The minister’s criminally irresponsible declaration has blighted the careers of hundreds of competent Pakistani pilots and engineers in the aviation industry worldwide. European countries and the UK have suspended PIA operations. The European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) has banned PIA in Europe initially for a period of six months, noting “it no longer has confidence that Pakistan, as the state of operator, can effectively ensure that operators certified in Pakistan comply at all times with the applicable requirements for crew qualifications.”In the latest bombshell, EASA informed non-member airlines on Tuesday that it had recommended to its 32 member states to consider suspension of validations issued against Pakistani pilot licenses, and advised all airlines to not schedule Pakistan-licensed pilots for operations to Europe.The European authority’s stricter action came just over a week after Malaysia and Vietnam decided to ground pilots with Pakistani licenses. UAE aviation authorities have also sought verification of the credentials of Pakistani pilots, flight operation officers and engineers.Meanwhile, the UN Department of Safety and Security has removed Pakistani airlines from its ‘Recommended List’ and advised staff not to travel on any Pakistan-registered airlines. Other countries may follow suit.Understandably, all this is deeply resented by many whose credentials and competence are unquestionable, yet who face the brunt of the ‘unlearned’ minister’s reckless announcement. His indecent haste is seen as an example of the current government’s political immaturity and illustrates how severely damaging unthinking pursuit of slogans can be. PTI leadership has defended the folly by claiming that it acted transparently. The ruling party’s leaders forgot that they were the government and it was their responsibility to gather authentic information before acting in aid of transparency. The road to hell was, in this case, traversed on a container!The Minister’s going to town with his half-baked information has made pilots of Pakistani origin suspects and the butt of all jokes the world over. And wonder of all wonders that the officially certified list of some 150 pilots who supposedly fall in the ‘dubious’ category includes a couple of pilots who have already retired and two who are no longer in this world. PTI-style accountability to the grave!The government can do whatever damage-control it wishes, but it has dug a deep hole with its mindless and unwise handling of the whole affair. While it remains in denial about many a mess it has created on various fronts, it went overboard this time round and made the announcement without checking facts first. A classic case of putting the cart before the horse.The broadcast of the Aviation Minister’s poorly framed statement conveyed the false impression that pilots flying PIA planes were not pilots! The disclosure that of 860 pilots, 262 had appeared in exams through proxies, is shocking. It is a matter that must be investigated and the offenders punished. However, contrary to the impression conveyed, these exams– mandatory as they are– test a pilot’s knowledge of rules and regulations, not skill in flying an aircraft. This is ensured by an airline’s training department by conducting sixmonthly training and checks. The exam is a mandatory requirement for a first officer to graduate as captain.By no means should issues troubling the airline be kept under wraps. Transparency and accountability are important but there must be a prudent way of ensuring it. According to a Bloomberg report in 2011, the Indian government screened licenses of its 400-plus pilots on suspicion of forgeries but never made the findings public.Pakistan could face a global ban on its national carrier. Apparently, there is mounting pressure from the public and the aviation giants on the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and on EASA to ban Pakistani airlines. The May 22 PK-8303 Airbus crash in Karachi has already raised questions about aviation safety standards in the country. Reportedly EASA has serious reservations about the CAA that comprises largely retired Pakistan Air Force officials.The mega damage is now done. It will take more than just diplomacy to restore confidence of the international aviation industry and travelers in PIA. Clarifications, assurances and belated explanations won’t help. They carry little weight once confidence has been eroded through ‘misfiring’ of the man in charge of aviation in Pakistan. Certainly the last thing this cash-strapped government wanted when it is so keen to promote international tourism in Pakistan.PIA has for the longest time been plagued by issues of merit violation, nepotism and political interference in key appointments. As a consequence, professionalism, maintenance of the ageing, ailing PIA fleet, and above all flight safety standards, remain largely compromised. Not surprising given that 11 CEOs of PIA have changed in the past two decades, no significant addition has been made to the fleet since 2006 and, as the Aviation Minister said, an aircraft was stolen!! Surely PIA’s great exclusive.Frankly the only thing going for PIA is its amiable, polite and very welcoming cabin crew. It partly compensates for all that is lacking. One comforting aspect of PIA is the recitation of a travel prayer just before the flight take-off if some ‘technical’ fault does not delay it. Otherwise finding a seat with a fully functional reclining mechanism, tray table that is stable, lights that work, seat belts that latch and a toilet that is in order is often a matter of luck. Never mind the retro PIA headphones that squish ears out of shape! And do not bother asking the cabin crew about the dysfunctional personal TV sets as the standard response would be that PIA is in the process of upgradation, hence excuse the inconvenience. I have had this response to all queries about ‘missing services’ during last three years of frequent flying between Islamabad and London!Returning from London in February I paid an additional sum to book a window seat. The window seat I got but the light right above my head refused to switch off and my seat didn’t recline! When I raised the matter with the airhostess she said to me with a disarming smile: “Madam PIA ka jo haal hai Allah ka shukar karein ke jahaz urr to raha hai!” (madam the state PIA is in, thank God that the plane is flying!)God bless PIA!"
Web Desk,The aftermath of the Stock Exchange attack,2020-07-07,"Large cities needs commissioners of policeBy: Mohib AsadThe terrorist attack at the Pakistan Stock Exchange building on 29 June and its aftermath need to be looked at from several angles. Firstly, the preparedness and valour of the private security guards, and the police staff posted at the gate, was first-rate. Kudos is due for the shuhada and the brave survivors. They did us proud. Secondly, that the agencies hostile to Pakistan are alive and kicking. They have a cadre of dedicated criminals available to do their bidding when asked. This is being met with focused vigilance by the security agencies. Thirdly, that once again it is patent that terrorist money financing is going on at a regular basis. Are we doing enough to minimize this aspect? Fourthly, that more effective training needs to be imparted to the law enforcing agenciess on officer safety. Fifthly, that all Inspectors-Generals may like to review the lists of Class A key-points, and get the owners to create more effective gating systems than the one at the PSX.It is widely believed that the Indian state funded and organized the terrorist attack. Investigation into the incident lends credence to this theory. India makes no secret of its strategic aim to dismember Pakistan. It holds seminars on the subject in open forums.After some respite over 2019, we see an upsurge in the incidents of terrorism in the country. Security agencies have been targeted by insurgents in the erstwhile FATA, and in Baluchistan. We have lost quite a few fine young officers and soldiers and we owe the armed forces a debt of gratitude for these sacrifices. The army is steadfast in holding its defensive positions, under constant attacks by the Afghan army across the Durand line, and by the Indian army across the Line of Control in Kashmir. The Afghans have so far only attacked our posts and forts in the KPK, but the Indians have made a habit of bombing our border villages, killing civilians on a regular basis.The Karachi attack is not the last such incident. More may follow. The hope is that they will be met with the same resolve, yield the same results but without any casualty on our sideThe Indian army has made it a rule of engagement to kill unarmed civilians on both sides of the LOC. After every weekly such action by the Indians, our Foreign Office then invites the Indian envoy to the Ministry. The envoy drives in on his BMW, escorted by the Islamabad police. He is given a cup of tea and handed over a letter which ends by saying that the MOFA assures the receivers assurances of its highest consideration. End of matter.We have had this attitude of kowtowing to the Indians for decades now. There is the International Court of Justice, the International Criminal Court, the UN, and several other effective forums where we can agitate for economic and arms embargo sanctions against India. The present Afghan government is being run by the Indian Foreign Office, so any hope of making a dent there is a lost cause unless we checkmate India through diplomacy. Yet, all we do is issue a polite note requesting the Indians to desist from killing our citizens, please.We must now realize, after observing the vicious anti-Islam trends ongoing in India, that the second term BJP government is hostage to zealot criminals, whose ultimate aim is to raze the Kaaba. And I am not being cynically dramatic. This is my considered view. The holy Quran bears testimony to at least one such attempt in Sura Feel (105). If you look at the RSS/BJP leadership you will quickly identify a lot of present day Abrahas. This may be a quixotic quest but it can lead to great regional disorder if left unattended.Our diplomacy is too colonial in attitude. Senior diplomats keep saying that for effective diplomacy one needs an underpinning of power. We are a nuclear state, for heaven’s sake. What more power does our Foreign Office want? Although we have a poor government due to bad fiscal management, we are still a middle income country. So our foreign policy should be more aggressive. We should take the Indians to the International Criminal Court for genocide in an area which has special status given by the UN. India will refuse to submit to the jurisdiction of that body; so what!! We will have made our point and produced evidence.The Financial Action Task Force, which started off as a reasonable institution, has morphed into a political tool in the hands of the G20 countries. Should we not send information to the FATF about India’s involvement in the recent terrorism in Karachi? India, with their membership status in the G20, will probably have it brushed aside which would further prove that the FATF is no longer a trustworthy forum.The Baluch Liberation Army and other such shadowy organizations which are the last vestiges of the Azad Baluchistan Movement of the 1960s and 1970s are on a slippery downward slope. Financial oxygen from India is keeping them alive. Over the decades, Baluchistan has transited into a politically strong and economically prosperous province of the country. Since the 18th Amendment to the Constitution, the per capita share of the province is more than the other units of the federation. If the political leadership of the province spends these resources wisely, Baluchistan is capable of great developmental strides. India’s utopian dream of creating another Mukti Bahini is a pipedream on which they are wasting money. Fine with us; it is their money.To defeat urban terrorism, good policing is of the essence. To begin with, all cities with a population of more than a million must have Commissioners of Police heading the service. London and many cities in South Asia are run by police commanded by a Commissioner of Police. The CP has judicial powers in minor offences,a dedicated budget, and full powers in the recruitment, training and discipline over his staff. The officer is still responsible to the provincial government and is supervised by the Inspector-General. The signal advantage of this arrangement is that it creates a homogeneous police which can do what is called ‘community policing’ in a more effective manner. In such a scenario, intelligence gathering which is like lifeblood to counter-terrorism becomes a routine. A community which trusts the police will lay much useful information with their police station.When he was the Vice President of the USA, Joe Biden, presently the Democratic nominee for President, spoke at one of the General Assemblies of the Association of Chiefs of Police. Here’s what he said:“ Today, it is the local cop who is going to discover the local terrorist working out of a vacant house, who is going to find a bomb in a backpack abandoned at a train station…..it’s going to be the local cop doing his rounds”The Karachi attack is not the last such incident. More may follow. The hope is that they will be met with the same resolve, yield the same results but without any casualty on our side."
Mohsin Saleem Ullah,Why we lawyers are underpaid,2020-07-07,"A view from the front linesHope is bleak, and survival is uncertain. That describes the story of hundreds of thousands of lawyers, who may run late on their lives to prevent their extinction in case they don’t find clients. Pakistan’s close-to-death economy and spiked prices of necessities had made our lives miserable; that is further fuelled by the coronavirus outbreak, which has resultantly deteriorated living conditions, and added into our struggle of the survival of the fittest.For those young lawyers joining the legal profession may pose concerns, and questions lingering in their mind on whether they have made the right choice of career. Every year Pakistan sees the influx of thousands of law students graduating from the government and private institutions, who decide to opt for legal education, without realizing if they have the aptitude for that specific field, and its scope in the light of their potential.For many, it’s the quickest way to get a professional degree and begin earning at an earlier age; which is why the law is the first preference for those who don’t like taking longer routes to avoid rigorous studies. Perhaps, others are not well-prepared to take a firm decision of their own because they are swayed by the peer pressure, and lack career counseling in their last years of high school when they are all geared up for the college applications. To some extent, I won’t blame parents who also inadvertently push their children to choose a specific field of studies of their choice, or otherwise instilling in children’s minds to get some lucrative and trendy degree so as to get back what they would initially invest in it.Parents have failed to figure out the potential, and skill set, their son or daughter is blessed with. They themselves had been compelled to act a certain way and were deterred with repercussions of failures in case of deviation from their chosen career. I still don’t get why our parents and society are intolerant of our initial failures, which I believe are more important than success in making us stronger-headed and helping us learn some important lesson that would otherwise be impossible.Pakistani Law firms and its managing partners are making money at the expense of the young lawyers, who in the hope of learning and earning money someday are exploited at their hands. The Pakistan Bar Council must ensure that young lawyers are paid well in every law firm regardless of its size. And the Higher Education Commission should change its admission approach to recruit new law students according to some international standard. That would help the law graduates to get some decent jobs, because a graduate without a skill set cannot call himself a lawyerCumulating all pressures, from earning good money to falling prey to the wrong choice of career, we are strangling to die our death. Most lawyers are on the verge of either giving up their legal profession either to take competitive exams in the hope of a smooth future, or have indulged in unethical lawyering in pursuit of making money. It’s been a while that lawyers have begun desecrating this noble profession that holds high esteem in the Western countries and remained a first choice of career for some iconic figures, including the founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, who got us independence by making use of his exceptional lawyering skills. I can recount a few exceptional and visionary lawyers within the country, but they are all foreign graduates of Ivy League universities or graduates of the world’s top law schools. Isn’t it an eye-opener for us to ponder on why our law schools have failed to produce outstanding lawyers, and reasons of our legal education lagging far behind the countries like the USA?To me, the failure traces back its roots to the recruiting process of prospective students in law schools across the country. Just a few years back, the Higher Education Commission has begun taking the Law Admission Test, which is pretty simple to sail through at the first sitting, because the test doesn’t involve problem-based questions testing analytical and critical thinking, like the Law School Admission Test administered in the USA.With a presence of robust and rigorous screening tests, coupled with meticulous law school application peripherals, including a personal statement to convince the admission’s committee with reasons for joining a law school, and some good recommendation letters from the last attended university– which is yet another eligibility to have a four years undergraduate degree– and post-study work, is appreciated by an admissions committee that helps members evaluate a candidate’s ability to study law.Moreover, it’s worth mentioning that like Pakistan, students in the USA hire educational consultants, who help them land in their choice of law schools. But universities make sure that they recruit deserving students, and continue producing outstanding lawyers, through a rigorous interview, which is the final step of the admission process, and helps the committee to assess the aptitude of a candidate, and screen out those who had sought help in their application from others.With stringent admission criteria and transparent recruiting process in place, the universities in the USA produce quality students who join, as junior associate positions in big law firms.There fresh law graduates begin working at a bare minimum salary of $15,0000 per annum, which is more than what a partner in a Pakistani law firm can get. I’ve hardly known any Pakistani law graduates making their way to Big-Law, neither they seem interested in Pakistan’s market because of the lack of business opportunities, and political interference in their business is a big “NO” for them to expand their operations in Pakistan.Never mind, let’s talk about what we are left now, the local law firms, which I’ve hardly heard of paying a stipend to their Pakistani law graduates at the outset because of the lack of quality education. And students from diverse socio-economic and educational backgrounds end up going to substandard law schools. That’s why it’s hard to expect quality work from them, and additionally, senior lawyers have to spend time correcting the basic English language in their legal drafts. Therefore, “it’s hard to pay them anything because they are an expense on us”, that’s what a big law firm’s senior partner told me. However, their stance is different for foreign law graduates, who are mostly swamped with extra work for as little as Rs 40,000 and are expected to work 12 hours a day. Is this how most of the law firms in Pakistan are exploiting talent? That is the reason why foreign graduates don’t like working in the country. Because firstly they are paid peanuts for half of their life, and secondly, they are expected to do maximum work of a law firm, that too over the weekend, which is a sheer violation of legal professional ethics.Pakistani Law firms and its managing partners are making money at the expense of the young lawyers, who in the hope of learning and earning money someday are exploited at their hands. The Pakistan Bar Council must ensure that young lawyers are paid well in every law firm regardless of its size. And the Higher Education Commission should change its admission approach to recruit new law students according to some international standard. That would help the law graduates to get some decent jobs, because a graduate without a skill set cannot call himself a lawyer."
Malik Muhammad Ashraf,Smart lockdowns produce positive results,2020-07-07,"The government has found a way outDuring his visit to the National Command and operation Centre (NCOC) on the completion of 100 days of its establishment Prime Minister Imran Khan was told that the smart lockdown strategy of the government had yielded results in regards to balancing life and livelihood, keeping the economy afloat, addressing the issues of the poor and the working classes and containing the spread of the coronavirus. This assertion was supported with reference to the IMF Economic Outlook which claimed that Pakistan was amongst a group of 30 countries, which had reversed the projected downturn from -0.4 percent to 1.1 percent from July 19 to May 20, while its exports fared much better as compared to exports from other countries of the region.It is really hard to take an issue with what the Prime Minister was told. The government decision to adopt the new normal through targeted lockdowns, also called smart lockdown, and simultaneously keep the wheel of the economy going, has surely produced positive results. Authentic data is available to suggest that in Islamabad and other parts of the country where a smart lockdown was enforced, a sharp decrease in the coronavirus cases has been noticed. According to the figures given by the Islamabad administration, the number of coronavirus cases in Islamabad on 1st June was 771. However after the smart lockdown in the areas with a greater number of infections the count has dropped to 113. The results of opening up of the different sectors of the economy are also quite visible and the people seem to be coping with the situation quite well. Though the number of cases is increasing every day, They are not as alarming as it seemed immediately after Eid-ul-Fitr.The credit for reversing the trajectory of virus infections goes to the efforts made by NCOC. The Prime Minister was right on the mark to acknowledge its achievements in these words “From daily monitoring of the situation to the capacity enhancement of health system and from establishing a credible database to a better resource management and formulation of appropriate SOPs, the NCOC has led from the front in the fight against pandemic” It would be pertinent to point out here that the NDMA has also made creditable efforts in the procurement of ventilators, protective apparel and other equipment required for treating the covid-19 patients and protecting the medical staff from contracting the virus while performing their duties.It is more imperative for developing countries like Pakistan. People must sustain the efforts of the government by observing the SOPs in letter and spirit. That is the best defence against the pandemic currently available. The people by and large have exhibited responsible behavior, which has helped in restraining the spread of the virus in an exponential manner. However, they need to get into their heads that the smart lockdowns and strict observance of the SOPs was in their own and larger interest of the country. The government on its part also needs to make sure that the agencies responsible for enforcing the SOPs do not show any slackness in this regardAs the need for ventilators and other equipment arose in the backdrop of the spread of the coronavirus, the government also focused on the efforts to locally produce ventilators, sanitizers and PPE. According to Minister for Science and Technology Fawad Chaudry, the country has succeeded in producing the ventilators locally and eight to ten ventilators would be handed over to the NDMA during the current week. He also revealed that Pakistan was already exporting sanitizers and PPE to the USA worth $100 million and it would have a big medical and electromagnetic industry within the next three years. That indeed is good news. As they say, there is always a light at the end of the tunnel. The pandemic has also led to the emergence of a new industry in the country to meet its future needs as well as be able to export the equipment produced by it fetching the much need foreign exchange.Prime Minister Imran Khan right from the beginning has been opposing the concept of complete lockdown justifiably, maintaining that with 25 percent of people living below the poverty line and the economy in doldrums, it was not a feasible option. Nevertheless, the government did not lag behind in evolving different strategies aimed at containment of the virus and providing relief to the affected segments of the society under the Ehsas cash transfer programme within the available resources. His logic was that our social and economic realities were different from other countries and it could not emulate their examples.A survey conducted recently by Institute for Public Opinion Research reveals that 63 percent of people endorse and support Imran Khan’s approach and handling of the prevalent coronavirus situation. In the end it is the public opinion about the efforts and policies of the government that matters the most. To be honest the criticism of the government by its detractors and political opponents in regards to its handling of the pandemic is nothing but opposition for the sake of opposition. The government has made, and continues to make, sincere and dedicated efforts within its means to grapple with the shock waves produced by the pandemic as well as keep the economy vibrant.The Prime Minister stands vindicated as most of the world, even the affluent nations, are also pursuing this model to come to grips with the pandemic realizing that they could not afford complete shutdowns of their economies and a way had to be found to live with the virus. Some states in the USA and the worst-hit European countries, are also opening up their economies with a view to restore normalcy. The UK has even allowed opening of pubs and restaurants to revive the social life. It is pertinent to point out that in some European countries the people also took out rallies to protest against the lockdowns urging the governments to remove restrictions on their movement and also save their jobs through revival of economic activities.It is now accepted worldwide that till such time as an effective vaccine becomes available, people have to live with the new normal and the people have a greater responsibility in making this effort successful by observing the SOPs, social distancing and preferably staying at home to stay safe. It is more imperative for developing countries like Pakistan. People must sustain the efforts of the government by observing the SOPs in letter and spirit. That is the best defence against the pandemic currently available. The people by and large have exhibited responsible behavior, which has helped in restraining the spread of the virus in an exponential manner. However, they need to get into their heads that the smart lockdowns and strict observance of the SOPs was in their own and larger interest of the country. The government on its part also needs to make sure that the agencies responsible for enforcing the SOPs do not show any slackness in this regard."
Ali Gauhar,The problem with Ideology,2020-07-06,"And the decay of fact-based dialogue and debateWhen the younger generation begins to seek knowledge and form ideas, it is only natural to favour or identify with an ideology. There is nothing wrong with that, unless they are convinced that it is only their belief system that can prevail. Problems arise when we choose to abandon critical thinking and not be open to other ideas if it does not suit the ideology we have subscribed to. Nuance, context, and humility are fast becoming casualties. Defending our ideology is now more important than finding the truth. The art of civilized discourse is decaying. Worldwide, we are seeing that ideology is taking precedence over facts. It is even more concerning that the younger generation is becoming ideologically headstrong, leaving little room for other viewpoints. Having an open mind is crucial for one’s development, hence pigeonholing and becoming intellectually hostage to a doctrine can be extremely counterproductive.The global political landscape is setting the stage for future ideologues. Today, we are witnessing emotional and illogical ideological politics on both the left and the right in many parts of the world. President Trump and Prime Minister Modi are examples of leaders who appeal to people’s baser instincts through emotive and divisive rhetoric, something that right wing populists are very good at. It also seems as if many on the left have backed themselves into ideological corners in response. Thus, extreme polarization and disunity best describe the current state of society worldwide.The more an individual identifies with an ideology, the more unwilling they are to accept new ideas. Unknowingly, they have abdicated their mind to the narrative they believe in. Identifying with a certain doctrine does not mean one should sacrifice their right to think outside it. Unfortunately, ideologies, political or religious in nature are very certain of their rightness, and thus become dogmatic. Even when new circumstances and evidence surface, followers who passionately believe in a doctrine will be reluctant to sway from their position.President Trump and Prime Minister Modi are examples of leaders who appeal to people’s baser instincts through emotive and divisive rhetoric, something that right wing populists are very good at. It also seems as if many on the left have backed themselves into ideological corners in response. Thus, extreme polarization and disunity best describe the current state of society worldwide.In Pakistan, religious ideologues have continually thrust their warped interpretation of religion. They have seeped into every segment of society and have actively discouraged tolerance, equality, and free thought. Obscurant clerics in Pakistan are a prime example of the problem with adamantly believing in an ideology, especially without exposure or education, which lays the groundwork for tyranny and regression.When you look at the educated left in Pakistan, one would expect them to be more flexible and less self-righteous. The left are usually very critical of the army, which is their right, however we have often seen their analysis skewed because of their dislike for the institution. For example, when the judgment against former President Musharraf was announced-that his body be dragged and hanged on Islamabad’s main avenue and left hanging for three days, rather than being repulsed, they either celebrated or stayed silent. Some went so far to say that abrogating the constitution (for just over 40 days) is worse than the most vile acts terrorism. This is exactly why disproportionate hatred is dangerous. Those who believe that Pakistan is in a shambles solely because of one institution are living in a fool’s paradise. One-dimensional analysis, which is a symptom of hardcore ideologues, will not solve anything. Any political analyst worth their salt will adopt a multi-varied approach to analyse a situation. Over simplifying complicated issues is never the answer. It is thus crucial that even if one strongly believes in something, they should have the sense not to hold themselves hostage to their narrative, and most importantly, have the humility to listen to others. The late filmmaker and cinematographer Albert Maysles once memorably said, “Tyranny is the deliberate removal of nuance.” That is the difference between wisdom and folly.It is important to stress that identifying with a particular ideology does not make you an ideologue, but identifying exclusively with a certain doctrine while downgrading alternatives does. It is imperative that the younger generation makes a concerted effort to critically think, and question what they believe in. Challenging your beliefs doesn’t make you weaker; it in fact strengthens your inquisitiveness, which is the source of further research and discovery. It is very easy to label people if we don’t agree with them. It is much harder to sit down and listen. We must acknowledge that we don’t know everything, which is why when you are listening to someone you don’t agree with, make a conscious effort to assume they may know something that you do not."
Shah Nawaz Mohal,"Consume carefully, please",2020-07-06,"How consumer culture goes deeper into our Psyche than we previously thoughtWe buy and consume, therefore we are. We consume calories to live. We consume heat to survive. We consume water to exist. We consume love to feel alive and die. We consume information to make sense of the world, or nonsense of sense we once made of. We consume all we can lay our hands on, our minds consume sights. We acquire to consume. We consume to sense life. We consume more, acquire more, and wolf down more, phase out more. We, dear folks, are through and through consumers from the day we enter the world to the day we bid farewell and dwell in our heavenly-infernal abodes.Answer the Number of why’s below.Why do we buy something we neither need but want?Why do we buy on impulse, like compulsive apes?Why do we indulge in that pure hellish, woohoo ideal called ‘shopping till dropping therapy’?Why, when you are not paying for something, you are the product?Why social media feeds get inundated with sales and stuff, you showed interest in? Why do you crave and hanker after contentment of soul and seek, even find it in delicious food?Why do designer clothes make you whole?Why do expensive watches make us more confident?Why are swanky cars; fast, phallic-symbolizing ones that we hanker after?Why do trips to exotic lands, which we have already seen in our feeds, excite us?Because we are men, we are sons of women; we are daughters of Adam and are incomplete. The answer to many of these questions lie in our species’ perpetual sense of incompleteness. From cradle to grave, we strive for completeness in relationships, achievements, possessions, and stuff. Be it the modern man with his limitless reservoir of distractions or the ancient hunter-gatherer who had to use his fight or flight instincts at the spur of the moment, the journey to feel whole continues.The need to acquire more, buy more, possess more, consume more, however, has turned the majority of us into folks who solemnly believe that every ill, every evil, every dilemma has its solution in acquiring more, buying more, possessing more, and consuming more. And that, as most of us are slowly coming to realize, is certainly not the case.And here enters acquisitiveness along with its various traps. Acquisitiveness is neither evil in itself nor worthy of hatred. The need to acquire more, buy more, possess more, consume more, however, has turned the majority of us into folks who solemnly believe that every ill, every evil, every dilemma has its solution in acquiring more, buying more, possessing more, and consuming more. And that, as most of us are slowly coming to realize, is certainly not the case.You are what you own is the mantra of our times. Owning more things, owning better things, owning what most don’t or can’t own has reduced us to maniacs whose sole concern is to feel better through acquisition. The cars we drive are messages. The clothes we wear yell our position in life. The houses we live in are banners. The jobs we have decide what social status we possess. The people we know decide where we stand in society’s hierarchy.There are those who manufacture, produce, create and sell. And there are those who buy, consume and acquire. Then, there are those who facilitate them both through advertisement. They facilitate the manufacturers by advertising their product and buyers by offering them a chance at happiness, contentment and fulfillment.In short, an advertiser’s job is to sell things, stuff and ideas packed, packaged and ready to be delivered as bundles of joy and contentment to consumers.The folks in the advertising business invoke passion, manipulate emotions, ask a celebrity to endorse a product as a magic-bullet, inculcate fear of being left-out, promise fame and recognition, and make many believe that happiness is just a purchase away. They know the consumer is not a moron, they also know he just masquerades around donning a rational, logical persona. And deep down, a consumer is as much prone to calls of enticement, excitement and adventure as a kid would be.If you can’t flaunt it with wanton abandon, it does not matter. If it isn’t better than others, it does not count. If what you possess is not unique enough, it is run of the mill. Our quest for identity has taken us to many places and given us great men who were astronomers, scientists, mathematicians, painters, writers, poets, leaders, prophets and leaders. They sought their identity through their deeds, acts, inventions, preaching and discoveries. The hoi polloi, however, since time immemorial sought prestige, position and identity by acquiring wealth, making profits, grabbing posts and positions of influence and caring for their progeny.The Prince of Paradox, G.K Chesterton may be of some help here. Chesterton wrote and I quote, ‘there are two ways to get enough: one is to continue to accumulate more and more. The other is to desire less’.To acquire more and perpetuate the craving or to desire less and be at peace with ourselves; that choice, dear folks, is ours."
Sumeera Asghar Roy,Russia emerging as the new agricultural epicenter,2020-07-06,"Pakistan could learn a thing or twoToday, Russia is a major player in the global wheat and grain market. Its numbers leave behind all global powers. The credit for this goes to the grain industry of Russia, which has brought back the confidence in an erstwhile dead economy, by bolstering the agriculture sector.Russian agricultural production has increased around 20% in the last half a decade, despite the broader recession. Russian President Vladimir Putin expressed his joy by dubbing it a “breakthrough”, while discussing these figures in a meeting with growers and farmers.In 2017, Russia’s revenues from agriculture exports reached over $20 billion. Grains have been the star of the show, as Russia became the number one exporter of wheat for the first time in 2016. Russians have started to underline that, for them, “grain is now second oil”.Russia’s wheat export exceeded that of the United States and the European Union, respectively. Russia currently holds a 22% share of the global wheat market with the EU and the US, accounting for 14% and 13%, respectively. This is a remarkable achievement for a country that was close to becoming a net food importer a few years ago.This episode encouraged Russia to invest adequately in the country’s agriculture sector with a $70 billion investment package to boost productivity in the agriculture sector via improved infrastructure and logistics. The Agriculture Ministry reported in the third quarter of 2019 that it is targeting grain production of 150.3 million tonnes by 2023, a conspicuous attempt that could prove to be instrumental in achieving the country’s target of $45 billion agricultural export by 2024.Since the collapse of the USSR, the agricultural sector has gone through a lot of transformation, from “an insufficient collective model to the sufficient capitalist model.”Islamabad should ban – or starts with controlling – imports. Then gradually, there should be a complete ban on importing cereals and vegetables, complemented with proper planning and kisaan packages. This can prove to be a turnaround for the sluggish economy of Pakistan.According to the head of SovEcon, an agricultural consultancy in Russia, the agriculture sector remains in private hands, which boosted the competition in the country. Now the role of the state has increased in the agriculture sector. It is another positive for the Russian economy. In 2014, Moscow decided to ban agricultural imports from nations which had sanctioned Russia, giving an additional boost to the local growers.Back in history, Russia was a big agrarian exporter. Then a Bolshevik collective approach wiped out farming culture and created an inefficient cooperative system, which forced the Soviet Union to import grain and other food items.After the collapse of the Soviet Union, farmers and growers had to learn modern agriculture growing system and reforms. They travelled the world to study the best management practices systems, to learn about the private ownership and mainly how people work for themselves.Over the decades, the government made agriculture a national priority and showed support by offering subsidies, along with investment in machinery and land. The government recognized the newfound strength of local competitors. One proof of this was the closing of an American trade group after 26 years of operations.Russia has increased its market share in the Middle East and Africa. Russian weather conditions, and its geographical location, helped them beat the competitors in America. They grabbed the market by lowering prices, and banning agricultural imports from western counties. Now Russia is targeting other distant markets, such as Indonesia and Mexico.Pakistan has excellent potential for grain and vegetable production. This is where we can learn from Russian practices, especially from the fact that they started doing well after banning imports from western counties.The local farmers and growers seized the opportunity, and began growing grains – wheat, barley, et al. – now they are the leaders in grain production. The same can be followed in Pakistan.Islamabad should ban – or starts with controlling – imports. Then gradually, there should be a complete ban on importing cereals and vegetables, complemented with proper planning and kisaan packages. This can prove to be a turnaround for the sluggish economy of Pakistan.Pakistani and Russian agriculture sectors have many similarities. Neither country is a stable economy. Food security is a common problem for both – Russia still imports more food than it exports. But Russia is on track, approaching its goal of feeding itself. In the last five years, Russia has become self-sufficient in the poultry industry. If Russian agriculture can grow from scratch, why not Pakistan’s?Wheat is staple food outside Pakistan as well. The whole of South Asia eats wheat and rice. Therefore, we can earn a good share of our trembling economy by focusing on grain, vegetable, and poultry industry.The time has come to explore every available option to help Pakistan’s economy. By initiating a comprehensive plan, and a channelized approach, in collaboration with astute think-tanks, who know agriculture in a real and proper sense, with modern application and competition, Pakistan too can take strides towards self-sufficiency.The author is a doctoral candidate at China Agricultural University, Beijing"
Humayun Gauhar,Slavery Everywhere,2020-07-06,"Slavery became peonageSlavery was ended in the United States in 1866, one year after the Thirteenth Amendment. But the states of Alabama, Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, Georgia, Missouri, Florida, Tennessee and South Carolina found a way around it. It was called ‘peonage,’ from which the British introduced the word, ‘peon’ as an office boy in the sub-continent and the word is still used in some places in India and Pakistan. Peonage meant that arrested Blacks could be leased out to work for White men who could then use them for all kinds of work as they did the slaves. To enable this, they established ‘laws’ known as Black Codes. For example, in Louisiana, it was illegal for a Black man to preach to a Black congregation without obtaining permission from the police. If they were caught, they could be arrested and fined. And if they could not pay the fine, which needless to say was stupendously high, the Black man was forced to work for an individual or go to jail where he would work until his debt was paid off.An unemployed Black person, he or she, could be arrested and imprisoned for vagrancy and loitering. It was worse in South Carolina where if the parent of a Black child was considered a vagrant, the judicial system allowed the police or some other government agency to “apprentice” the child to an “employer.” Black men could be held until they were 21 and females until they were 18. Their so-called owner had the right to inflict punishment on the child even for disobedience and to recapture them if he or she ran away. Peonage is systemic racism. It was established and perpetrated by government systems. Such acts of racism were inbuilt into the systems hence systemic racism. So peonage meant the re-enslavement of Blacks through the prison system and at one time, more than 800,000 Blacks were part of the peonage system. It ended around 1940. What enabled it was the wording of the Thirteenth Amendment which said that, “Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States…” What hypocrisy! Thus the smallest of transgressions was made into a crime. Once again, this is peonage. Because every white Southern farmer hated the ending of slavery, Black courts were introduced as a way to appease them.Jahalat abounds in this Islamic Republic of Pakistan from the highest levels of government down to the ‘peon’ as it were. You see it all the time and can only lament. In their ignorance, they also violate some of the fundamental human rights which are universalI submit that slavery and peonage are still embedded in Man’s DNA. We have been going on about US slavery for the last two or three articles, but lest we start gloating, we should remember that everyone is a victim of it in one way or another. Slavery was actually started by the Arabs and is also referred to in the Holy Quran but not called an ‘abomination.’ The first slaves in Africa were captured by Arabs and because the British were then the global overlords, they took them and sold them to White Americans. The Arabs even brought slavery to the Indian subcontinent. The first slaves were brought and sold by an Arab raider, Mohammad bin Qasim to Sind, then in British India. He converted many people to Islam, whom he called ‘Momins,’ which means ‘true believer.’ This is from where the word ‘Memon’ comes from. The graves of his soldiers can still be found in a place called Makli, near Karachi.In human crimes against people continuing to this day, a few days ago, a woman in Pakistan was stoned to death by her husband and his brother, because she was somehow violating the law of ‘vani’ which is a family against whom something is proved to a village court and the punishment is to hand over one or more girls regardless of how old they are to the so-called victim. Another local law is the exchange of women as wives which is called ‘karo kari.’ In Islam, no one especially a girl, can be forced into marriage by anyone except by choice. And the most horrible practice of all is so called ‘honour killing’ which should more aptly be called ‘dishonour killing’ in which even the mother and father of the victim participate. What kind of mindset is that?Sadly, such practices exist everywhere. In Indian villages, ‘satti’ or wife burning on the husband’s funeral pyre still occurs. Such things are pre-Stone Age. What can one say? I suspect that even cannibalism exists in certain parts of God’s world.Actually, one of the main purposes of life is to gather knowledge and shun ignorance. Ignorance is a sin of one of the worst kinds. One of the fundamental human rights in Islam is that every person should be able to develop his or her mind to the fullest and it is the duty of the State to provide the wherewithal for that, and yet in this Islamic republic of ours, we have customs and even laws which would make even people from the Age of Ignorance, which is called ‘jahiliya,’ blush. The pre-Islamic era is called jahiliya and from there stems the word jahalat which means ‘ignorance,’ though I am assured by people who claim to know better that even the jahiliya was an age of the flourishing of arts and culture.The point is that jahalat abounds in this Islamic Republic of Pakistan from the highest levels of government down to the ‘peon’ as it were. You see it all the time and can only lament. In their ignorance, they also violate some of the fundamental human rights which are universal.Thomas Jefferson was a great political mind. But he was also a slave owner. So today the debate rages in the USA whether his memorabilia should be removed. We should all remember that human beings are products of their time and what is considered terrible today by society was considered acceptable then."
Omer Javed,"Institutions, organizations, and markets",2020-07-06,"Will anyone do the needful?‘This nation asks for action, and action now’– Franklin D. Roosevelt’s inaugural addressThere is crisis after crisis facing the people, may that be for instance, the sudden price hike of sugar, wheat, and more recently oil, at the back of either reportedly artificial disruptions in supply chains by cartels within each sector, or lack of policy response, or on the other hand inability of the government to improve the workings of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) or effectively deal with inefficiencies in power sector utilities.Resultantly, the government continues to play the ‘nanny state’ by bailing out the inefficiencies of these sectors, through the use of precious public money, which should otherwise have been used for the welfare of the multitude of poor– with significant increase in their numbers, ushered in by the current pandemic. Instead, lack of policy, possibly at the back of collusion of politico-economic elites, leads to welfare of these rich!The PTI came into power on the promise of bringing ‘change’– bringing a structural change, and even a break in certain ways, from the past. Change requires policy response; rhetoric alone does little. And there remains a serious lack of policy response. A better performance in this regard, would have even allowed better preparedness to deal with the current pandemic even.One of the main differences between democracy and dictatorship, is the existence of working communication lines between the elected and the electorate. That ensures a two-way learning system, and a natural vent for grievances of the aggrieved parties. This is still very weak. Words go unheard, because otherwise there have been so many hue and cries, through both written and spoken words in media, and other interactions of economic and political agents, that a better listening government would respond. Volcanoes erupt, channels ensure flow.Can the PM come up with a ‘New Deal’ reform for Pakistan, one that is also green? For this, among other thing, he will need to understanding the correct limits of the public sector– and not minimal, as the neoliberal mindset, to the great disadvantage of country after country, tried to do over many decades now. Moreover, he will have to remove the class system, in the shape of civil and government service, and push to approach one reformed public service. Once again, all will require policy, and before that, will. Yet before anything can make a roll-on, the PM will have to be more inclusive of others’ ideasSo what does an economic agent wants: better institutions, improved organizations, and efficient markets. Fall short on these in any significant way, and the result is frequent fire-fighting of issues of a similar nature; similar, because, the roots of all these crises are mostly in the same three origins– institutions, organizations, and markets. Fix the roots, and the fruits will be a lot better. It cannot be the other way round.Institutions are the ‘rules of the game’. Institutions are embodied in the practical sense by ministries at the federal level, and departments at the provincial level. They make the policy– the environment– under which both organizations– the ‘players of the game’– and the markets operate to their optimal levels. Both the organizations and markets allow interaction of economic agents to reach ‘economic exchange’ of goods and services. Institutions therefore aim to ensure the least disruptive and costly exchange.Now take some of the recent issues that made headlines. The wheat, sugar, and oil crises, apparently caused by inefficient institutional environment, did not upgrade organizations to ensure seamless economic exchange. Lack of policy, and non-neoliberal in that, kept institutions weak. That is the rot at the roots, which the government has not been able to fix through policy. Such policy vacuum, according to many, is even by ‘design’, of the likes that the PM likes to identify as ‘elite capture’.Only needed policy could have weakened these politico-economic collusions of the elites, and thwarted their extractive institutional governance and incentive structures, that they have put in place over many decades. Yet the PM has remained unable to get around to creating a team of cabinet ministers and advisors that can deliver in this. So what will change this? is what the PM should ask himself. Like he is– an open and straightforward person, as much amplified by his very first speech after becoming PM– he should share with the public an honest declaration of how he will improve his team, and how, broadly speaking, the institutions, organizations, and markets be improved. He should enumerate main policy steps in terms of governance and incentive structures that will bring improvement in all three.The current pandemic has all the more exacerbated the overall acute and chronic economic issues that were already facing the country. There is no more time to delay the policy response needed. Will the PM answer this loud and clear call, amplified all the more by the crisis, and rise to the challenge? In recent history, Franklin D. Roosevelt rose to the occasion, and changed the destiny of an entire nation suffering deeply by the Great Depression of the 1930s.Can the PM come up with a ‘New Deal’ reform for Pakistan, one that is also green? For this, among other thing, he will need to understanding the correct limits of the public sector– and not minimal, as the neoliberal mindset, to the great disadvantage of country after country, tried to do over many decades now. Moreover, he will have to remove the class system, in the shape of civil and government service, and push to approach one reformed public service. Once again, all will require policy, and before that, will. Yet before anything can make a roll-on, the PM will have to be more inclusive of others’ ideas, like being made in this column."
Syed Kaswar Gardezi,Bigotry & Intolerance,2020-07-06,"The Islamabad temple episode shows the resistance of Zia’s influence“You are free to go to your temples, you are free to go to your mosques or to any other place of worship in this state of Pakistan. You may belong to any religion or caste or creed, that has nothing to do with the business of State” concluded the Quaid when he delivered Pakistan to the people. Freedom of religion was the first fundamental right which was recognized and affirmed by our founder. In very simple terms, he explained that religious association had nothing to do with the affairs of the state and rightly so.Unfortunately, these words were blown in the air soon after. Pakistan became the first country to introduce constitutional amendments outlining the faith of the people. Thereafter, General Zia cursed us with his presence and put an end to Pakistan’s journey towards progression. The policies he introduced were so deeply entrenched that they continue to haunt us till date. Intolerance towards others was sponsored by the state during his reign. Though his initial attack had been towards democracy however, during the process he completely annihilated the idea of a secular and progressive Pakistan, one where people would feel secure and be considerate and tolerant towards the others.Although a blast of fire followed by a puff of smoke took General Zia with it however, his imprint left on our society have grown even stronger over time. The religious intolerance which he introduced continues to be fathomed even by so called democratic governments. Just this past week, news surfaced of a Hindu temple being constructed in the federal capital. The news was welcomed by progressive activists as a step in the right direction in order to promote religious harmony and tolerance, keeping in mind Quaid’s promise; you are free to go to your temples. But the jubilation was short lived as this news was not well received by the many sons of the Zia legacy. There was uproar. How could the Muslim theologians and zealots tolerate the construction of a Hindu temple in the federal capital?The thin shackles of their faith, once again, came under threat. Constructing a temple goes against the spirit of Islam, claimed most of the objectors. Some political parties, always looking to cash in on situations, joined in support. That being the case, the Quaid-e-Azam, according to our current religious clerics, would be an infidel given his views regarding religious tolerance. How could he allow the people to go to their temples? After all, it went against the very spirit of Islam. Obviously, General Zia was a much better leader than the Quaid. He gave us a better legacy to follow. One which wears bigotry as a crown jewel.A government which itself continues to bow down to bigotry and intolerance every now and then cannot protect its citizenry against it. The halting of the construction of the temple signifies the daunting prevalence and the power of bigotry in our country. Ch Pervaiz Ellahi should probably change the name of his political party from Q for Quaid to Z for Zia because what it currently stands by has nothing to do with what the Quaid professed. Unfortunately, our revered old man was wrong; you are not free to go to your temples in PakistanWhich leaves us to come to the democratic governments which came after Zia. One of the two was a creation of Zia itself, so it basically cemented Zia’s legacy under the garb of democracy. The other one was too corrupt to the core to make an everlasting impact on the people. Democracy proved to be a failure. It failed to educate its masses over the past three decades and systematically drain out the intolerance and extremist mindset of the people. On the contrary, the extremist mindset has in fact been condoned. Government after government has bowed down towards extremist sentiment. The most classic example being the incumbent government lead by Imran Khan. Within two years, it has bowed down towards religious extremism a number of times with the temple in Islamabad being the latest. Within hours of resentment by bigoted quarters, the PTI government halted the construction of the temple indefinitely and referred the matter for a decision by the Council of Islamic Ideology. It failed to stand firm on a decision already made only because the religious sentiment of a few intolerant segments had been hurt.These zealots, probably, first need to take a backseat and revise the teaching of Islam. Our religion, the best amongst all if followed in its true essence, preaches tolerance, harmony and peace. It does not force its teachings on the human race but merely extends an invitation which a person should accept out of his or her own free will. The concept of forced conversion is alien to Islam and has nothing to do with it. It is the bigoted mindset of the children of General Zia’s legacy who have introduced fanaticism in the name of Islam which has ruined even the image of our beloved religion.For those who are not convinced with simple Islamic interpretations and would prefer to stick to worldly laws, there is a need to review our Constitution. The basic chapter of fundamental rights unequivocally protects the rights of minorities and their ability to “practice” and “profess” their religion. In the presence of a clear protection, opposing the creation of temple is absurd and highlights the remnants of General Zia in our society. Imran Khan, even though he claims to be an upright leader, lacks the nerve to stand up to extremist ideologies. The entire nation is aware of his earlier escapades pertaining to religious extremists. In fact he has had a soft corner for the religious zealots for far too long. The Prime Minister is yet to issue a clarification in regard to calling Osama Bin Laden a martyr. His spokesperson did not even bother to term it a slip of tongue and merely insisted that he used the words “killed” twice. Therefore, not much can be expected from such a leader in when it comes to religious tolerance.A government which itself continues to bow down to bigotry and intolerance every now and then cannot protect its citizenry against it. The halting of the construction of the temple signifies the daunting prevalence and the power of bigotry in our country. Ch Pervaiz Ellahi should probably change the name of his political party from Q for Quaid to Z for Zia because what it currently stands by has nothing to do with what the Quaid professed. Unfortunately, our revered old man was wrong; you are not free to go to your temples in Pakistan."
Raoof Hasan,The shadows are lifting,2020-07-05,"Detractors may conspire as they may, Khan is here to stay“I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it. The brave man is not he who does not feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear”.–Nelson MandelaIt is a season of weaving conspiracies. There is one every week, nay every day, predicting the fall of the government. Time span is outlined, dates are projected, a rationale concocted, reasons counted and the finale enacted on way to the promised hour. And when one set of rumours is quashed, out comes another with even greater alacrity, and almost the same set of predictions– that the Prime Minister and his government are on the verge.We have been hearing this for as long as Imran Khan has been in power. There has not been a time when a new doomsday scenario was not enacted, either by the set of politicians who have been left out of the loop, or their minions engaged in the trade of selling their written and spoken word for a price. Every day this government survives brings them incalculable pain and suffering. Their desperation is literally immeasurable.The reason is not difficult to fathom. This government is not like any other government that ruled this country in the past. And Khan is not like any other leader. He has come with a mission– that the networks of corruption and crime have to be busted and their perpetrators brought to justice. When the work started in earnest, it dawned that the links in the chain of corruption and crime were really widespread, in and outside the country. Be it the ignominy of receiving illicit commissions on government contracts, laundering funds by opening fake accounts, running crime cells, abductions, murder of opponents and those carrying their damning secrets, letting loose a reign of terror– all these heinous acts were orchestrated by the politicians, their crony beneficiary elite and a network of aiders and abettors.Notwithstanding the conspiracy theories that these political charlatans and their wicked cronies, paid bootleggers and the bunch of despicable merchants of the written and the spoken word may keep weaving, Khan is not going anywhere. He is not only here to complete his tenure, he is here to accomplish a mission– a mission that is pivotal to the survival, security and progress of PakistanSo, the task turned out to be even more daunting than anticipated. The choice was simple to either face challenges in carrying out the job of cleaning the decks with courage and fortitude, or compromise with the mafias for an easy sailing through five years of constitutional tenure. All projections favoured the latter. Obviously, those contriving them were not aware of the mettle that Khan is made of: a person consumed with a passion to remove all impediments in the way of Pakistan getting on course to genuine progress.Making a choice was not a difficult task. What was harrowing was that the criminal syndicates had penetrated all institutions of the state. So, it was not just dealing with a few criminals alone. Their cronies, toadies, bootleggers and agents were present in all branches of the government as guardians of their sordid indulgences. They were there in the bureaucracy and The financial institutions. They were present in the accountability bureau, in the judiciary and in the business communities. They had put together cartels and were running terror outfits and death squads, operating with the patronage and financial support of the gangs patronised by political leaders and their accomplices.So mammoth was the challenge that anyone else in Khan’s place would have given up. But he is unique. He is fearless with indomitable courage. No one from among the politicians comes even close to matching his credentials. They all hail from the tribe of predators who exploited a decrepit system to their personal advantage, and that of the crony beneficiary elite they patronised. This led to the making of an unjust and inequitable society breeding poverty, discontent and disaffection. Nobody paid any attention to this because it was all part of the larger game plan to foster a few to rule the rest. Khan had entered politics to break this stranglehold and give space to the impoverished people to be able to breathe.The motivations of this clan can be gauged from the fact that they had started accusing the government even before it had assumed office, saying that it had been planted by ‘Khalai Makhlooq’ (read Army). But they were so devoid of character that, when asked, they would not garner the courage to name the institution. This accusation becomes even more grotesque when one looks at the background of these political fabrications, be it the PPP, PML(N) or others. They forget that they were literally born in the laps of dictators whom they referred to as ‘daddy’ and mentors, rating them even ahead of the Quaid-e-Azam.The battle lines have long been drawn and there is no backing off for the Prime Minister. As a matter of fact, having been frustrated by the inefficiency and culpability of most of the state institutions and their functionaries, it is expected that he will resort to more stringent methods and mechanisms to weed out the crime cells from the country.His recent speeches from the floor of the Parliament reflected an unflinching resolve and determination in combating the scourge. Now that the budget has sailed through the Parliament, he would be playing more on the front foot which is going to make things extremely uncomfortable for the gangs of thugs who come wearing the apparel of political leaders. A cursory glance will tell the story. The Sharifs have run away. Virtually all members of the family have been declared absconders, but they neither have the character, nor the shame to submit before the law. The ones who are here have retreated to their illicit mansions amidst deafening silence for fear of accountability. Asif Zardari, on bail, has virtually vanished from the scene. This comes as a consequence of lavish indulgence in corruption and crime. In spite of complicity of the judicial arm of the state with criminals, there is still no escaping the dragnet of justice in the end. They must all be punished for their misdemeanours.While there are some whose presence may be undesirable, Khan has a group of loyalists who are irrevocably committed to his agenda of freeing the country from the tentacles of corruption and crime. They are willing to go the distance in realising the dream which was their leader’s prime objective for entering politics. There is going to be neither any dilution of this objective, nor forfeiture.Khan is one man standing in the way of these gangs of criminals trying to take over the country again and plunge it back into the deep pit of crime. Dithering or showing weakness in the face of vicious onslaughts is not an option. As a matter of fact, I expect this determination to be further strengthened in direct proportion to the level and intensity of hostility thrown his way.Notwithstanding the conspiracy theories that these political charlatans and their wicked cronies, paid bootleggers and the bunch of despicable merchants of the written and the spoken word may keep weaving, Khan is not going anywhere. He is not only here to complete his tenure, he is here to accomplish a mission– a mission that is pivotal to the survival, security and progress of Pakistan.The spectre of gloom and doom shall give way to the advent of hope. The shadows have started lifting. Having passed through a cauldron of fire, it will be a chastening sight to behold the dawn of a glorious morning – for Pakistan, and those who keep their faith."
Rabia Ahmed,Once upon a time there was a great airline,2020-07-05,"Once things were differentOnce upon a time there was an airline called PIA that was known by the slogan ‘Great people to fly with.’ It really was a good airline.It is said that that line which became the flag carrier’s advertising slogan was suggested by Pakistan’s sports columnist Omar Kureishi who also worked for the airline. It was echoed by Jacqueline Kennedy when, as the First Lady, she flew from Pakistan to London. When she was leaving the aircraft she hugged the pilot, and when someone asked her what her flight had been like she said they (PIA) ‘were great people to fly with.’The line-up on the tarmac shows a confident, smart air stewardesses, and a male pilot returning a skirt-clad Mrs Kennedy’s hug. It did not cause the end of his career and the world did not collapse. Those were different times indeed.A look back at Pakistan International Airlines is nothing but an exercise in bitterness.The airline that we were once so proud of and that now makes us hang our heads in shame (the story of Pakistan) started life in 1946 as Orient Airways with financial help from Mirza Ahmad Ispahani and Adamjee Haji Dawood, two of Pakistan’s wealthiest businessmen. It was the year before Pakistan came into being, so the headquarters of this fledgling airline was Calcutta (now Kolkata), one of British India’s major cities. Later, when Pakistan came into being headquarters shifted to Karachi. In 1955 Orient merged with PIA and became PIAC (Pakistan International Airlines Corporation). It started international operations the same year.The bit about dubious licenses is not hard to believe if one places the issue alongside the car driving licenses held by the people of Pakistan. Raise your hands all those who have a kosher license, obtained by taking a test?The young airline achieved many firsts. As Orient Airways it was the first airline with a Muslim ownership in British India. It was the first Asian airline to operate jet aircraft, and in 1964 it became the first non-communist airline to fly to Mao Zedong’s China, and the first non-Soviet airline flying non-stop from Moscow to Europe. Much later in 2005, PIA made the world’s longest flight by commercial aircraft (a Boing 777) from Hong Kong to London. The flight lasted all of 22 hours and 22 minutes.PIA also provided assistance to other airlines around the world and was mainly instrumental in setting up Emirates, now a well respected airline based in Dubai.Air Marshal Nur Khan became Managing Director of PIA in 1959 and the following year PIA became a financially profitable airline.Then came General Zia. Funny how that line is almost always the precursor to an account of a downturn in events. Zia became Pakistan’s Head of State in 1978.PIA’s crew have had a few changes of uniform, from the first uniform of a hat and skirt to the second design by Feroze Cowasji. The third design was by Pierre Cardin and the fourth by Sir Hardy Amies. The fifth unform was designer by Pakistan’s own Naheed Azfar, and that appeared in 1986. The process of selection began earlier, personally overlooked by the General himself, who along with his wife was himself present and part of the judging panel. He found Azfar’s design too form fitting, nevertheless it became the uniform with a few strategic changes.PIA’s life has never been easy, what with political interference in its running. In 1954, the Ministry of Defence for some reason took over the running of the airline; it controlled appointments and made all decisions that had previously been the responsibility of the Civil Aviation Authority. From then on the CAA became kind of redundant. Many major airlines stopped flying to Pakistan. PIA had the highest ratio of employees to aircraft in the world and it suffered due to interference by unions in management. It became known for its dirty cabins, bad food, failure to keep to the timetable, and worst of all, unreliable staff.In 2013 Nawaz Sharif’s government separated the Aviation Division, which had been a wing of the Ministry of Defence, and it became an independent entity. The Aviation Division took over commercial airlines and the CAA.The move out from under the thumb of the Ministry of Defence was hailed as a major step in the right direction, although subsequent governance seems to have compromised its potential.The end seems to have come now with ‘dubious licenses’ adding the final nail on the coffin. Who wishes to fly an airline whose pilots have not passed their flying tests? Pakistan’s national carrier has now been banned from airports around the world and its pilots in several countries have been suspended until further investigation into the status of their flying permits.The bit about dubious licenses is not hard to believe if one places the issue alongside the car driving licenses held by the people of Pakistan. Raise your hands all those who have a kosher license, obtained by taking a test?"
Web Desk,Education Should Reach Every Home,2020-07-05,"The covid-19 pandemic is taking a toll of education tooCOVID 19 is an unprecedented pandemic in human history and the number of infected cases is soaring higher than the average of preceding days in Pakistan. This pandemic is a huge challenge and a test of the mettle of political and professional leadership. The scale and gravity of the situation is alarming and warrants immediate measures at all levels with a sense of national pride in service delivery by all and for all.The pandemic has further exposed our education and health systems since patina and polemics disappeared with the first push to the systems, a few months back. The situation did not emerge suddenly and the successive governments at the helm of affairs in Pakistan are responsible for inaction and apathy. The health system all over the country, during the initial few weeks of the pandemic, demonstrated gaps in the capacity and the prevalent institutional arrangements and pointed straight towards persistent lack of interest in human development by the political economy. The lack of space and capacity in public sector hospitals forced patients to approach private sector facilities at exorbitantly high costs. The pandemic is the test of the will and potential of the political leadership but at the same time, it is an ideal opportunity to build resilient systems and expand them exponentially to meet the incessant demand in the country.The entry tests for admissions in universities are long-awaited. It is not difficult to conduct admission tests like MDCAT and ECAT in small batches by the respective universities and colleges, by observing the standing operating procedures and maintaining social distance, without any further wastage of time. Pakistan Army has once again taken a lead and has started the process for the recruitment of officers using education technology in their selection centres by strictly observing the standing operating procedures prescribed by the health authorities in PakistanThe available workforce in the public health system worked day and night to cope with the situation with limited resources. Many doctors and paramedical staff embraced martyrdom in the service of the nation during the pandemic. They are the pride of the nation and the crown of the creatures and rightly deserve appreciation and conferral of the highest national awards and recognition at the highest political and professional levels. The salutation gestures by the officers and all ranks helped to raise the morale of the health professionals since they deserve the accolade and salute. The doctors and paramedics have made the nation proud and vehemently announced with a stoic resolve that they will continue serving the nation despite all odds and limitations. They are still struggling with the same zeal, spirit, determination and dedication in an emergency.As a matter of fact, health systems, both in public and private sectors, were slow to provide extra workforce, requisite financial resources and personal protection equipment to doctors and paramedics well in time. Covid-19 reached the country with a lag period of more than one month as compared to China and many other countries in Europe and the rest of the world. The Federal Ministry of National Health Services and lead epidemiologists in the country were successful in disseminating symmetrical information through print and electronic media about the dynamics of the pandemic and its impact and implications on the health of the people in near future and planned expansion in health paraphernalia, but implementation is a limitation so far.The manifold increase in the number of patients in the public sector hospitals has put an extraordinary burden on the existing facilities and pressure on health professionals and management. The propriety demands that federal and provincial governments should build field hospitals in rural areas and improvise the available buildings into hospitals on a war-footing basis in urban settlements. The campaign to engage more doctors and paramedics must be started simultaneously and immediately since the demand for health facilities in the near future will escalate and has the potential to create acrimony and disappointment among the people if the top priority is not accorded right now. The health systems are already late in keeping the requisite pace with the emerging needs and further delay in expansion in health infrastructure and human resources may cost the people very heavily.Educational institutions have been closed down and students are waiting for the opening for the last four months or so. While the developed world has taken advantage of technology and ensured the dissemination of knowledge through education technologies and took the educational institutions to the homes of the students, some of the developing countries, including Pakistan, are still at the thought process stage.The private sector in education and some of the lead institutions in the public sector have taken a lead and introduced innovative approaches by online coaching of the students, but secure coverage for all the students remains a challenge.The Government of Pakistan took an apt and prompt decision to promote students based on marks scored by them in previous classes in the respective Boards of Intermediate and Secondary Education two months back. The sole purpose behind this important decision was to save the time of the students and allow them to progress further and seek admissions in universities and colleges. The students who have passed the intermediate examination are still waiting for admission in medical, engineering and general universities. There should be a strong realization on the part of policymakers and political leadership that delay in admissions and start of new classes is causing a colossal loss in terms of creating a lag in building the human didactic resource base of the Pakistani students, as compared to the other nations employing education technologies to teach and assess their students.Our youth, the future of the nation, is already at the brink and heading towards chaos and uncertainty due to unclear policy guidelines regarding admissions and start of classes in professional colleges and universities. It has been established by now that remote teaching, learning and secure assessment, is possible through education technologies ,and we can save the precious time of the students and engage them in learning through virtual learning platforms in all disciplines of knowledge. It is high time that government and private educational institutions and entrepreneurs must make an immediate investment in the human development sector, enabling the mentors and mentees to unlock their potential and ensure that affordable quality education is possible in emergencies. The Government of Pakistan should mobilize the investments to help education managers and entrepreneurs to build stronger and resilient systems in the country. The proposed investments will help the education and health systems to continue and serve undeterred during the current covid-19 crisis and in case of emergencies in future as well.There is an old but impressive adage that, ‘where there is a will, there is a way’ but this has been further improved by Dr Mahathir Muhammad, former Prime Minister of Malaysia, by saying that, ‘where there is a will, there is a way but if there is a way, will be found.’ The Government, led by Prime Minister Imran Khan, needs to take immediate measures to find will and way both and that too urgently.National Disaster Management Authority and similar authorities at the provincial level are doing firefighting against the pandemic, but the soaring trends in pandemic require a much higher level of undivided attention. Ideally, the dedicated implementation units, led by the Prime Minister and respective Chief Ministers, should work in unison to develop new facilities for health and monitor the state of education in emergency. There is a dire need for action and quick and accurate decision making is warranted, bypassing bureaucratic rigmaroles and conundrums in an emergency. The Global Education Monitoring Report, 2020 has been published recently and the state of education in Pakistan is not enviable when compared with other countries at the same level of development in the region and around the globe.The entry tests for admissions in universities are long-awaited. It is not difficult to conduct admission tests like MDCAT and ECAT in small batches by the respective universities and colleges, by observing the standing operating procedures and maintaining social distance, without any further wastage of time. Pakistan Army has once again taken a lead and has started the process for the recruitment of officers using education technology in their selection centres by strictly observing the standing operating procedures prescribed by the health authorities in Pakistan.(Dr Allah Bakhsh Malik is a UNESCO Confucius Laureate and former Federal Secretary Health and Education. He can be reached at [email protected])"
Kamil Ahmed,The Energy Saga,2020-07-03,"The pandemic will not change things as much as expectedGlobal energy demand has risen in the past century which led to the improvement in standard of living, increase in life expectancy, coupled with decrease in poverty levels globally. This is just one side of the story: fossil fuel consumption drove the growth but with-it carbon emissions also rose. From 1998-2018, CO2 emissions rose 48 percent and to achieve climate goals carbon emissions have to decrease at the same rate for next 20 years.However, in the times we are living in, electricity demand has dropped six percent and global carbon emissions have dropped around six percent, with a highest 17 percent drop year-on-year in April, all because of the covid-19 pandemic. But globally this reduction in emissions will not be sustained as lockdowns associated with covid-19 are eased.What should we expect in future? Fossil fuel demand (excluding natural gas) is expected to decrease in the West in all future scenarios from 2018-2040. This makes sense as advanced economies can afford to make the shift from conventional to renewable energy sources.On the contrary, fossil fuel consumption in the East is expected to increase in the majority of scenarios in next 20 years.The rise in the renewables which was estimated before corona and fossil fuel decline it triggered, would still be valid with slight variation. Which is to say, for instance, solar power which supplied less than 0.01 percent of electricity in 2018, increased to 2 percent in 2018, and is expected to provide 20 percent of electricity globally.Be it the circular debt conundrum or the overall governance problems of Pakistan, administrative and fiscal decentralization is the only viable solution. Anyone arguing otherwise doesn’t understand the problem, doesn’t want to resolve it or is protecting certain vested interests (political/financial). In this government’s case it appears to be a mix of all threeThe game-changing green revolution that is believed to be the outcome of the hit that the fossil fuel industry received in contemporary times is not grounded in reality and seems mere wishful thinking. Covid-19 may however speed up the rise in the renewables in the advanced economies (reasons for which are discussed later).There will be two kinds of impediments that renewables will have along the way. For advanced economies low capital turnover and capital stocks will still be a problem as technology which is to be used in future in the energy industry is produced earlier. There is a lot of investment at stake and with-it politics comes into play as well.As far as the developing countries are concerned, they have received a huge financial hit because of the pandemic and despite the decline in fossil fuel industry they will continue to find the shift to renewables, eveb if they are expensive, and would seek an autonomous increase in energy efficiency. This opportunity in the developing economies will be lost to the lack of the fiscal space which is necessary to make the energy shift.To understand the energy landscape of Pakistan, I got in touch with former Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi. The former PM said, “As far as the primary energy mix is concerned, Pakistan is in a much healthy condition. Reliance on gas has gone up and furnace oil consumption has reduced. Commitments on nuclear energy have been made and it will become available too.”He further said, “4000 MW coal-powered plants (installed in the PML(N)’s tenure) and 1300 MW which is being installed in this government’s tenure will provide the cheapest electricity. We added 13000 MW in the national grid in just four years which is unprecedented. Along with the coal-powered plants, we have installed 5000 MW in LNG-based power plants. A 1000 MW plant running on diesel for 12-13 years around Lahore (installed during Musharraf’s time) was shifted to LNG, reducing its cost to one-third. Rousch and Nandipur plants which have a capacity of around 1000 MW were also shifted to LNG. Rousch was shut down and Nandipur had technical issues when we came in.”Talking about Thar coal, the former Premier said, “Thar coal is an expensive source of fuel and it will stay like that for 15-20 years when price crossover is expected.The Main reason for this is that a lot of investment is required in Thar which takes a lot of time and without it, cost of production will be high. The main problem with the present government is its indecision. You need to shut down old power plants, for instance, Jamshoro and Muzaffargarh, but I am not sure if government can do that keeping in view their inability to make a decision, and vested interests”He also discussed the viability of renewable power in Pakistan. He said, “The problem with renewable power is it doesn’t have a base load and it is only feasible in Pakistan when the total cost of generation of renewable energy is less than the fuel cost of your cheapest fuel generation.“Now coming to the problem of circular debt, it is not because of expensive electricity, as one Minister believes it to be. Secondly, circular debt is a misnomer. It is pure loss and I suggested we should either privatize them or hand them over to the provinces to deal with the aforementioned problem,” said Mr. Abbasi while discussing the everlasting problem of circular debt.Pakistan’s energy mix now stands with natural gas at 34.6 percent, oil at 31.2 percent, hydro at 27 percent, nuclear at 2.7 percent and renewables at 1.1 percent. As far as the menace of circular debt is concerned, it stands at Rs 1.8 trillion., The government instead of decentralizing distribution and handing it over to provinces (so it can be managed efficiently), has moved a law to pass circular debt to consumers.This was expected of a government which exhibits a severe dislike for the Eighteenth Amendment and wishes to roll it back. The consequences of the aforementioned law, which enables government to pass circular debt to consumers in the form of a surcharge in the bill, will be dire as people are already struggling to meet their expenses owing to poor economic conditions and rise in unemployment.Be it the circular debt conundrum or the overall governance problems of Pakistan, administrative and fiscal decentralization is the only viable solution. Anyone arguing otherwise doesn’t understand the problem, doesn’t want to resolve it or is protecting certain vested interests (political/financial). In this government’s case it appears to be a mix of all three."
Askari Raza Malik,Invisible Justice,2020-07-03,"Has justice been seen to be done?Justice is the jugular vein of a society. It must exist with all its sinews and be made visible with all its transparency. If justice delayed is justice denied, justice invisible is justice wasted, faded away into oblivion. Nebulous concepts like ‘justice at your doorsteps’ clutter the rhetoric. Across-the-board justice remains a dream unfulfilled.Unfortunately, the present system of justice in Pakistan has largely failed to deliver.The Caliph enters the supreme court along with the petitioner. The Chief Justice rises from his seat to pay respect to the most powerful ruler of his time. Th Caliph sacks the judge. A judge who makes distinction between a caliph and an ordinary citizen is incapable of delivering justice. The same Caliph when challenged by an old woman in the famous ‘Chadder and shirt episode’, he on the spot provided evidence to clarify his position. The history proudly recorded the message for the posterity. The Caliph is as accountable as his subjects. Another true Caliph loses his case against a Jew citizen because his son’s evidence is not admissible in the law. He does not employ his goons to attack the supreme court to prove that the chief executive was always right. That was the State of Madina we aspire for.An official servant is required to declare his property along with that of his wife and children. This is repeated time and again during his service. It is to ensure that all changes in the family’s wealth status are regularly accounted for. As the head of the family, he is answerable for the riches accumulated by him or any other member of his family. It appears that the rule does not apply to the honourable judiciary. If so, the anomaly needs to be removed immediately like the irksome extension of the military chiefs.In the past the rulers applied a simple yardstick to judge the conduct of the government servants. If over a period of time an official had accumulated more wealth than his means justified, he was punished for corruption. In Pakistan, this criterion, though often talked about, seems to have little value. Here the children of a three-time prime minister become billionaires without having earned a penny of their own. The father, instead of being grilled to furnish the money-trail, is facilitated by law to abscond abroad.The courts should be and are completely free. The Constitution must, however, clearly define inter-institutional functional boundaries. Without this balance we will live in perpetual confusionIn the promotion board when a member’s relative comes up for consideration, he leaves the room. It is not just a matter of protocol. It is intended to establish the credibility and transparency of the board. When the going gets tough, merit becomes a sine qua non. Injustice does not hurt an individual. God compensates him. But every act of injustice, small or big, creates a corresponding hole in the ship of the nation. The Prophet (PBUH) had warned that nations stronger and richer than us were destroyed because they were not just.In Pakistan the son of a serving chief justice is repeatedly accused of a number of irregularities from out-of-turn promotions to outright corruption until the case becomes too obvious to ignore. The chief justice, who ‘portrayed himself as an ‘honest broker’ in a corruption-ridden Pakistan, despite being cautioned to the contrary, chooses to chair the bench appointed to decide his son’s case. The son is proved innocent. The conscience of the father also remains clear. Happy ending.A provincial high court assembles on the weekend to grant bail to PML(N) President Shehbaz Sharif. It was not the first time that a court was held on a holiday, the court contended. It must be normal for the courts to work on the weekends to attend to similar compelling urgencies. His elder brother was allowed by the Court to instantly proceed abroad for treatment that has yet to commence. Who will get him back? The court had done its part of the job. The ball is now in the government’s court.On social media a picture gone recently viral shows the images of those fortunate Pakistanis who had justice delivered practically on their doorstep. This includes the royals of the Sharif dynasty, PML(N) stalwarts like Rana Sanaullah and many holy figures from Sindh. Good luck to them. The barbaric drama staged in Model Town Lahore can wait. No Chief Justice has ever taken a suo motu notice of this brutality. It has been perhaps left for God to punish the culprits.The handling of the latest case of Mr Justice Qazi Faez Isa by the Supreme Court did not do much to boost their confidence in the judicial system which they have known to be full of faults. The presidential reference was quashed, which according to the defender was based on mala fide. This contention of the defender was never discussed, proved or rejected. However, the refence was set aside as the defender had wished. At the same time the show cause notice issued by the Supreme Judicial Council (SJC) to Mr Justice Faiz Isa was also quashed. According to senior legal analysts, the court exceeded its limit by interfering in the functioning of the SJC. It was a prerogative of the SJC to admit or dismiss the reference. A justice was as much accountable as an ordinary citizen, we were told, but not exactly. He was not responsible for the wealth accumulated by his family. He had the right to make a thrilling entry into the courtroom and seek to defend his family. The Court had the patience to stop the government lawyer in his tracks to accommodate the intruding justice. The poor mortals can hardly hide their shock.The courts should be and are completely free. The Constitution must, however, clearly define inter-institutional functional boundaries. Without this balance we will live in perpetual confusion.The Supreme Court, in keeping with its best traditions, must have also done justice in all the episodes alluded to above. Unfortunately, the justice has remained invisible."
Qudssia Akhlaque,Respectfully offering water,2020-07-03,"It can go a long way….To all those who read this column I humbly appeal for a small but a very doable act of kindness. A practice that can go a long way – here and in the Hereafter!The quest is for drinking water. Not any contribution for construction of mega waterways or dams that would take years upon years, and a functional government, to build.Given that in the long-term we are all dead, the plea is for something more immediate and gratifying.Having won votes on promises of 10 million jobs, five million houses, education and healthcare of the kind only those derisively branded as the ‘elite’ could afford, the current dispensation in Islamabad has done little during the 22 months of its misrule except promote despair.So let us abandon high-sounding rhetoric and promises of revolutions and just do what ordinary men and women of this country do best– be kind. To tide over an era of utter ineptitude and mendacity!In this sweltering summer heat and suffocating humidity, what can be more welcomed than drinking water? When the sun beats us down mercilessly the one thing that gives us immediate respite is chilled water and cool shade. It can be life-saving. So for the love of God the fortunate amongst us who have both, courtesy airconditioned automobiles, please carry extra water bottles to offer fellow citizens trudging along the road.During the month of Ramadan in Pakistan, as in other Islamic countries, there is tremendous show of generosity– in cash and kind. People give in abundance food, drinks and rations. Lavish spreads for iftar for the faithful are offered in almost every other locality. It is equally important that this spirit extends beyond the holy month. Kindness and generosity should not be a seasonal affair!In these times of the deadly Coronavirus outbreak, wearing protective face masks has become a necessity and the scorching, unbearable heat outside makes it even more dehydrating. Hence the need for water is felt even more. Offering water to the less privileged pedestrians is the way to go. But in doing so, it is equally important that we do it gracefully, keeping in mind the dignity of the receiver or person at the other end– with respect and humility. Not as a favour but a duty, as considerate caring citizens. It entails very little but would take us a long way as individuals. Consider this gesture as a token of thanksgiving to God for all His countless blessings that we so often take for granted. In these tormenting times healing will come largely through empathy and compassion.Helping quench somebody’s thirst is one of the finest acts of human kindness and it takes so little. Its importance can never be underestimated. At times it can make all the difference between life and death. Acute dehydration in many cases can lead to death, especially in children and elderly. We have been reminded repeatedly in the Divine scriptures that saving one life amounts to saving the entire humanity.Those who can afford it, and surely many can even in these cash-strapped times, should may be go a step further and also distribute caps, umbrellas and portions of dry snacks like biscuits, bread or fruit for instant energy. As individuals we must make our contribution to society, no matter how modest. The act of giving is a great source of strength and solace, and more so when the state appears to do nothing but fail in providing for the most vulnerable amongst its citizenry.In times like these, small acts of kindness will help restore people’s faith in humankind. It will make them feel counted– seen and heard. Not abandoned.All religions teach humaneness– kindness and compassion to fellow beings.The giving spirit of Ramadan must prevail throughout the year even if not in the same measure and scale. It keeps us connected to humanity, our soul and more importantly brings out the best in us.It is so important that when we set out in our respective cars we do not get sucked in by our cell phones but keep our eyes wide open to the world outside– beyond the comforts of our airconditioned vehicles. Slowing down at times to simply offer water to the elderly, children and young folks compelled to brave the heat for a living. We need to sensitize our children to such acts as well and do it in their presence. Children grow up doing what they see their parents do. Lectures and sermons have little impact on them as do the real gestures of kindness and generosity that they witness.During the month of Ramadan in Pakistan, as in other Islamic countries, there is tremendous show of generosity– in cash and kind. People give in abundance food, drinks and rations. Lavish spreads for iftar for the faithful are offered in almost every other locality. It is equally important that this spirit extends beyond the holy month. Kindness and generosity should not be a seasonal affair!True generosity is helping deserving people without their asking. And it is this act of giving on the quiet, without any pomp and show, that is most blessed. The spirit of unconditional human compassion will always triumph over the fleeting gains of this worldly life. The ultimate healing is in acts of kindness, not in expediency. Empathy must translate into concrete action.The giving spirit of Ramadan must prevail throughout the year even if not in the same measure and scale. It keeps us connected to humanity, our soul and more importantly brings out the best in us.True generosity is helping deserving people without their asking. And it is this act of giving on the quiet, without any pomp and show, that is most blessed. The spirit of unconditional human compassion will always triumph over the fleeting gains of this worldly life. The ultimate healing is in acts of kindness, not in expediency. Empathy must translate into concrete action.Giving away bottles of clean filtered drinking water would certainly be a good beginning."
M A Niazi,Writing in the time of covid-19,2020-07-02,"Literature too will never be the same againAT PENPOINTEven now, even though the covid-19 pandemic has yet to run its course, there is already much speculation on what the world will look like after it is over. One area where it is safe to say there will be changes will be in literature. Already, there has been some relief sought in narration, as literature consists of smaller sets of text than narration. Literature’s guardians have tried to achieve some relevance, as was seen by the Swedish Academy’s award of the Nobel Prize for Literature to US musician Bob Dylan for his lyrics. It must also be accepted that film scripts have taken the place of play scripts, just as films have become much more popular than plays. Then there are the new media, which are often spin-offs from books and movies, mostly in the form of videogames, which are in themselves an appropriate means of passing time in the lockdown era, being computer-based and thus solitary, even if online there is an entire community playing.The reader might notice the dominance of the USA in the existing narrations relevant to the era. This reflects the cultural dominance of the USA, especially in the visual arts. It has a certain appropriateness, as the USA is presently leading the world in the number of cases (over 2.7 million as of yesterday morning) and deaths (over 130,000 by the same time). Additionally, it seems that the USA had the most recent material available, especially in the form of movies.Yet these are not merely fiction, they are science fiction, being set in a future, usually a near future. One of the most interesting movies on this theme has been World War Z (released in 2013), an obviously pre-epidemic movie about the spreading of an illness that converts people into zombies. This is meant as an explanation for how the Zombie Apocalypse, a common trope of horror films, might arrive. That is the movie which most clearly postulates that the Zombie Apocalypse is caused by a virus, with the mode of transmission being bitten by a zombie.Closer to actual events of illnesses are depictions of the plague. Daniel Defoe is most famous as the author of Robinson Crusoe, and thus one of the founders of the novel in English, but he also wrote the Journal of the Plague Year. Published in 1722, it was about 1666, when London was struck by the plague, as well as the Great Fire. But it was not covid-19, but the bubonic plague. That era, and that plague, left us a nursery rhyme: Ring-a-ring-a-roses/ A pocketful of posies/ A-tishoo, a-tishoo/ We all fall down.The great literature of the world was all created with this somewhere at the back of the writer’s mind. Readers also had this as part of their mental furniture. If Camus made the plague a methaphor for the Nazis, his audience knew what a plague was. Thus literature, that lens through which men have grown used to look at themselves, has already been changed forever. But it still has to be written, films to be made and videogames to be createdThe roses and the posies were a reference to the only prescription the doctors of that era had: something to freshen up the air. But then came the sneezing as buboes developed in the lungs and windpipe, and ‘we all fall down.’It may have been bacterial, but the bubonic plague, like covid-19, came from China and attacked the respiratory system. If it caught the imagination of Defoe, it affected at least two French writers, chronologically far apart. In 1585, the essayist Michel de Montaigne, was Mayor of Bordeaux, the French port, when it saw an outbreak of the plague as his tenure ended. The harrowing episode stayed with him, and informed his essays, which preceded those of Francis Bacon, much more familiar to the English-speaking world.Then there was Albert Camus, whose La Peste (The Plague) describes an attack of bubonic plague in Oran, a port in French Algeria. It was both a description of one of the last outbreaks of plague in recent times, and also taken as a parable for the Nazi Occupation of Europe.But while the bubonic plague was the most dramatic, there were other diseases which could be epidemic. One of the most common was cholera, which was caused by a pollution of the water supply. India suffered from it greatly, and one such epidemic is the springboard for Deputy Nazir Ahmad’s Taubatun Nasuh, published in 1877. It begins with Nasuh and his father getting up for the fajr prayer, having dined on rice the night before. The description is brief, but it gives an impression of the time: both fall sick, but Nasuh’s father dies almost at once. That was characteristic of previous plagues; death was very sudden. There is the trope, made familiar both by Defoe, and by Samuel Pepys, whose diary includes life under the plague in London, of the death-carts, with the carters shouting out the demand for corpses. Even the, plague victims’ bodies were avoided, and were buried in mass graves.Another book with cholera as the epidemic disease was Love in the Time of Cholera, published in 1986, Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s first book after winning the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1982. Dealing with Latin America, and the travails of doctor combatting cholera, it shows what happens when a disease is endemic. There are outbreaks in the shape of epidemics.That is what is being predicted for covid-19: that it will become endemic, in that it will not afflict many people most of the time, but there will be occasional epidemics, when the virus comes into contact with a population which lacks immunity to it.One epidemiologist has said that the world will go back to an era resembling World War II, a world before antibiotics. Antibiotics were a really big deal, ending both the bubonic plague and cholera, both of which are bacterial diseases. Neither has been completely wiped out, though neither assumes the proportions of an epidemic. (Though there is a report of a cholera epidemic in Yemen, caused by the breakdown of both safe water supply and medical services, due to the civil war.)It is unfortunately true that viral diseases (such as smallpox, polio, AIDS and yes, covid-19) found no medicine, and all so-called antivirals are palliatives rather than cures. However, before antibiotics, people would go about their lives with the knowledge at the back of their minds that they could fall sick and die at any minute. Life becomes uncertain, but so does economics. What if a business partner fails to turn up? Or an employee? Because they fell ill suddenly in the night. And are now dead.The great literature of the world was all created with this somewhere at the back of the writer’s mind. Readers also had this as part of their mental furniture. If Camus made the plague a metaphor for the Nazis, his audience knew what a plague was. Thus literature, that lens through which men have grown used to looking at themselves, has already been changed forever. But it still has to be written, films to be made and videogames to be created."
Dr Farid A Malik,Custodians of The Back Door,2020-07-02,"The custodians seem to have learnt their lessonPolitics in the land of the pure has suffered due to backdoor entries. The list is long and painful, from the Chaudhrys of Gujrat to the Sharifs of Lahore or the Wattoos of Okara, and so on, there are trails of corruption, nepotism and plunder. It is a great national tragedy that while the front door entrants have been blocked the Chor Darwaza‘(backdoor) has been kept open for the entry of the unscrupulous by the halfeducated chowkidars. East Pakistan was the first to break off. The brilliant lawyer Hussain Shaheed Suhrawardy, the Chief Minister of United Bengal, was bypassed to establish back door links with his ordinary party worker Sheikh Mujib-ur-Rehman who later on rose to become the father of the Bangla Nation ( Banga Bhandu ). Nawabzada Liaquat Ali Khan, the first elected front-door Prime Minister, was assassinated and so was the second ( Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto ). Khan Qayyum Khan, the undisputed leader of the Frontier Province, was humiliated in the dungeons of the Lahore Fort. From Balochistan the Khan of Kalat was also captured and kept under house arrest in Lahore. A Sarkari League was launched as a political entity called the Pakistan Muslim League ( Convention ) with its headquarters on Davis Road Lahore, the property is now under the control of PML(Q), led by the Chaudhrys of Gujrat.The Quaid-e-Azam’s sister and mother of the nation, Mohtarma Fatima Jinnah, challenged the ‘Chowkidars ‘ in January 1965 in the first Presidential election held under the 1962 forced constitution. She travelled the length and breadth of the country and addressed public gatherings. The old guard of the Muslim League ( Sardar Shaukat Hayat Khan, Khawaja Nazimuddin, Mumtaz Daultana, among others) fully supported her campaign. Naturally the Head Chowkidar had to rely on the coercive state apparatus to win the elections. The area SHO was tasked to deliver the BD Member (Basic Democrat ) to vote for the dictator and then kept under watch till the announcement of the results. Under the President there were two iron-fisted rogue governors (Ameer Muhammad Khan in West and Abdul Monem Khan in East Pakistan). While the rest of the country surrendered to the whims of the first dictator, Karachi the city of Quaid, remained defiant till he was toppled. A strategy was developed to ensure free and fair election in the metropolis. The students surrounded the police stations after the morning prayers, not letting the SHOs take control of the BD members to ensure their vote for the dictator, and as a result Fatima Jinnah prevailed over the President. It seriously dented the invincibility of the Head Chowkidar, which proved to be the beginning of the end for him.Finally after wasting a lot of valuable time and enduring pain the era of Chor Darwaza politics seems to be fading away. The backdoor custodians should now ensure for the health of the nation that political players enter through the front door while only garbage is moved out from the back to be dumped at the waste siteIn the Anarkali-Nila Gumbad area, Haider Ali Bhatti was a very complaint BD member. He had a hair-cutting saloon close to the Tollington Market intersection. For the favours he received from the authorities he used to display lifesize portraits of the President. During the election campaign the students gathered around his shop and forced him to remove the posters. Late in the evening the poor fellow was summoned to the Governor’s House for a dressing down. Next day the posters were back. Finally under pressure from both sides he went underground to emerge after the elections. This was typical ‘Chor Chowkidar‘ (cos’n’robbers) democracy of the 196s. With backdoor entries, it was called Basic Democracy or Controlled Democracy. The electorate consisted of 80,000 members, 40,000 from each wing. It was Quaid’s sister who had the courage to challenge this charade and real-life political drama.In the checkered political history of Pakistan very few real national political parties were formed. Bhutto’s Pakistan People’s Party was the first political entity to gain this distinction in November 1967. YMCA Hall on the Mall was the venue where ZAB challenged the ‘Custodian of the Back Door’. The progressives joined hands with him and soon it turned into an anti-establishment movement. The mighty Ayub Khan was toppled to replaced by another dictator who promised to hold elections on the basis of adult franchise. In 1996 two political parties appeared in the arena, both seeking change and offering a third option to the corrupt politics of the PPP and the PML(N). Farooq Leghari formed the Millat Party which was announced with great fanfare at PC Lahore while Imran Khan launched his Tehreek-e-Insaf in a modest way. Leghari Sahib could not resist the temptation of power and decided to merge his frontdoor party with a backdoor entrant, the PML(Q) led by the Chaudhrys of Gujrat. Imran Khan kept his political course to finally enter the corridors of power in 2018. In the 2013 elections it was denied victory by the ‘Chor Darwaza‘ politics of the PML(N).The current situation is quite interesting. The PTI has entered the corridors of power through the front door after over 22 years of struggle. The PML(N), a backdoor inductee that was able to reach the front door, is now being pushed back from where they were made to enter. The front-door political entrants and the backdoor custodians have joined hands to move the political players to their respective ends for normalcy to be restored. The PPP (Bhutto) was indeed a front door political entity but it has been disgraced by Zardari to be bracketed with Chor Darwaza parties like the PML (N) and PML(Q). After Zardari Trauma is over, the PPP may yet emerge as a national party but the era of backdoor parties is over, the custodians have learnt their lesson. In real life, as it is widely believed that there is no shortcut to experience; in politics, struggle is an essential ingredient for sustainability. Loot and plunder alone cannot ensure long-term survival for a political outfit. Finally after wasting a lot of valuable time and enduring pain the era of Chor Darwaza politics seems to be fading away. The backdoor custodians should now ensure for the health of the nation that political players enter through the front door while only garbage is moved out from the back to be dumped at the waste site."
Sultan M Hali,Crash of PK-8303,2020-07-02,"And The Black BoxPakistan International Airlines flight PK8303, an Airbus A320 carrying 91 passengers and eight crew from Lahore, crashed just short of the Karachi Airport on 22 May. Two passengers miraculously survived, while 97 perished, including the aircrew.There have been a lot of speculation about the causes of the air crash. The government instituted an Aircraft Accident Investigation Board to look into the causes while the Airbus aircraft manufacturing company dispatched its own technical team to thoroughly investigate the causes.Besides taking briefings from PIA and the Civil Aviation Authority and obtaining video and audio recordings of the air accident, the team took charge of the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and the Black Box, which will provide important clues to the fatal crash.The decoding of the Black Box and the Cockpit Voice Recorder laid the blame squarely on the Cockpit Crew as well as negligence on the part of the Air Traffic Control. The Federal Minister for Aviation has already disclosed the contents of the investigation to Parliament and measures are being adopted to avoid the recurrence of such an accident in future.Many readers may be wondering what is a “Black Box”, which has an interesting background. With the rapid development of jet fighters during the Second World War, the British began developing the first jet-powered airliner, the famous Comet, which flew in the 1950s. The Comet however, seemed to be jinxed, and in 1953 a number of the aircraft crashed inexplicably, putting doubt in the public’s mind about the safety of jets.Aeronautical engineers and scientists all over the world were puzzled. Unless they found the cause of the crashes, the Comet would be doomed to failure. Unfortunately, no clues could be found. There were no witnesses, no survivors, and all that was left of the aircraft were massive tangles of bent metal. Dr David Warren of the Aeronautical Research Laboratories (ARL) in Melbourne, a chemist specializing in aircraft fuels, became interested in the mystery. As he listened to the frustrating discussion of possible causes, he began to conceive the idea of some sort of recording of the flight crew’s conversation, and of protecting the record so that it could survive the crash. He reasoned that while the accident analysis committees found it difficult to trace the cause of the crash, there was a good chance that the flight crew might have known, and it might well have been revealed in their conversation in trying to deal with the emergency.The number of parameters that the FDRs can monitor will continue to increase as they continue to get even more sophisticated, and they may even store video images from the cockpit to complement the crew voice recordings. Recently a company called Flight Vu has started to produce cameras, which record the events in the cockpit and others that are mounted on the wings and tail of the aeroplane to record the condition of the plane during flight. Air travel has become safest form of transport because of extensive fault analysis, making it imperative for other forms of domestic transport to use recorders to investigate accidents and improve their safety.Warren propagated his concept, and in 1954 outlined his ideas in a report titled “A device for Assisting Investigation into Aircraft Accidents” and put theory into practice with the support of his Superintendent, Tom Keeble, and an Instrument Engineer, T. Mirfield, designing it with steel wire as the recording medium. It was fully automatic for fit-and-forget operation with a “memory” mechanism that would store four hours of pilot voice and instrument readings at the rate of eight per second up to the moment of any accident but would automatically erase older records for the wire to be re-used. It was given the project name of “The ARL Flight Memory Unit” and the original is now displayed in the Science Museum, Melbourne.By 1958, Flight Recorders were adopted by the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for use in all commercial aircraft. The Flight Recorder comprised a Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) and a Flight Data Recorder (FDR). The CVR records the conversations between members of the flight crew and other sounds in the cockpit as well as radio transmissions and communication with air traffic control units. The most modern versions weigh about 7.3 kg and measure approximately 12 by 15 by 33 cm. The CVR records four audio tracks which are all taken from separate microphones, in the crew members’ headsets and a microphone placed in an overhead panel between the pilots which records sounds such as engine noise, stall warnings and landing gear extensions and retractions, and these sounds are then used to determine parameters such as engine rpm and the times at which certain events took place.The FDR is considered the more valuable of the two recorders. Its purpose is to collect and record data from a variety of airplane sensors onto a medium designed to survive an accident. The most modern weigh about 7.7 kg and measure approximately 12 by 15 by 50 cm and can record data continuously for 25 hours. It keeps a record of the operating data of an aircraft such as airspeed, altitude and compass heading.The FDR unit is capable of withstanding an impact with force equal to one thousand times the value of gravity and is located at the rear of the aircraft. The Black Boxes are required to be painted bright orange or bright yellow, making them easier to locate at a crash site. They have pingers and give out radio signals. After the accident the pinger locates the recorders and the orange and reflective stripes are removed from them. The information is extracted and processed using advanced computer equipment. Sometimes a computer model is created as a reconstruction of the whole flight to enable a sophisticated analysis of the flight information at any point during the flight.The number of parameters that the FDRs can monitor will continue to increase as they continue to get even more sophisticated, and they may even store video images from the cockpit to complement the crew voice recordings. Recently a company called Flight Vu has started to produce cameras, which record the events in the cockpit and others that are mounted on the wings and tail of the aeroplane to record the condition of the plane during flight.Air travel has become safest form of transport because of extensive fault analysis, making it imperative for other forms of domestic transport to use recorders to investigate accidents and improve their safety.Hopefully, the Black Box and CVR report will provide closure to the families of the victims of Flight PK 8303 although a new Pandora’s Box has been opened with the issue of fake degrees but that will be discussed some other time."
Badar Iqbal Chaudhary,"How will history judge us, now that we have judged the judge",2020-07-01,"There is more to the short order than meets the eyeThe baleful clouds engulfed the splendor of cathedral of justice, as the ominous shade portended the events to follow. The main doors remained shut, but for the select few, as the masses thronged the sidetracks. Ironies of the system were on full display. Rumors amok, the clock struck four.When the arguments fail, the law falls short, or the rhetoric is intended for the public eye rather than the annals of legal scriptures, we infallibly resort to religion. It was manifest in the Victorian views urged by the former law minister. Reliance was also placed by the petitioner judge, the emissary of his wife, to remonstrate the alleged malicious ‘persecution’. It was only apt then, that, before announcing the judgment, the judge on the other side of the podium, read an injunction to announce that the judges remain accountable. To whom must they account, some differed.The equities appeared to tilt one way. All ten, deciding the fate of another amongst them, declared the Supreme Judicial Council incapable of rendering a decision on the validity of reference. However, seven indicated the action was premature; three that it was malicious.There is no cavil that the superior courts have reserved for themselves, fortified since the Sabir Shah cases in the first half of 1990s, the power to review a pending proceeding if the forum concerned lacks jurisdiction, the remedy available is merely illusory, or if the questions of mala fides are involved. Nevertheless, this power has been used sparingly, and more often than not, is exercised in trials by or in presence of media. Where popular justice is not desired, the more popular choice has been to demonstrate restraint and allow the original forum to make a determination.One prays that scales have not shifted, yet again, in favor of pragmatism and expedience, at the cost of unadulterated and well-meaning justice. Across the board and equal for all. We know it too well now that injustice leads to tyranny and despotism. The natural corollary whereof is chaosShow cause, one is repeatedly admonished by the superior courts, are not final orders. Yet, apropos the subject matter, notwithstanding the suo motu powers of the SJC, the show cause notice was declared as having ‘abated’ once the underlying reference was found deficient. Persecution is worse than punishment, albeit, only for the nobles. The rest, as the entrance doors had indicated, remain languishing in the sidetracks.Be as it may, it was declared that the reference was not competent. Seemingly, the council can make a determination in a reference arising out of the same circumstances, upon letters written to the President, but cannot make a determination on a reference filed pursuant to purported failure to disclose properties.Even more so, notwithstanding the bar in Article 211 of the Constitution, the court continues to exert jurisdiction under Article 184(3) to nullify the proceedings before the SJC. In the recent past, therefore, now two references have been quashed.History is known to judge consequences more often than intentions. If the consequence of this precedent is to demonstrate lack of faith in the SJC, perhaps one should consider dispensing with the institution altogether. Why have it, when the trumping power is to be retained by the Supreme Court (even when the bench formed for the purpose potentially may even consist of fewer judges than the SJC itself).This argument, however, is for the conservatives to make. The court maintains that it must act to render complete justice and must intervene for that purpose. One would defer, but to what end?If, as the three lords imply, the reference was maliciously filed to target the independence of judiciary, it should have been quashed in toto. That is what the precedent dictated. In theory, at least, the judges interpret and declare but do not make laws.The superior courts have laid down clear principles confining its powers to interfere in alike matters. Conspicuously, the prematurity of an action has not found itself in the folds of principles which may become the impetus for the Supreme Court to intervene. There is no doubt the noble lords are aware of this. Yet, such an end appears to have come to pass.If the intent was to hold the judges more accountable than others and thus leave no space for speculation, why particularize the forum, mode, manner, and the parameters within which the accountability must take place? Is this not an executive mandate and subject to prevailing law? Are some entitled to fewer rights than others?There are no qualms in supporting the cause of judges holding themselves out to a higher standard, but might one ask, shouldn’t the accountability begin from the day they become a judge? Alternatively, if one was not fit to be appointed in the first place, shouldn’t everyone partaking in the process of his appointment be equally held accountable?Even so, the spectacular seven paragraphs (paras 4 to 11) of the judgment tell no tale of the considerations that bore with the noble lords, but rather conspire to construct a cage within which the judge shall remain confined for another 75 days, while chased by prying eyes. It was not enough of an embarrassment for him to face an incompetent reference, there must be provisions for another. A much more valid one, if there is scope.Hence, although the law empowers delegation of powers, it was ordained that the specified individual, and none else, shall issue notices under specified law to the specified persons, to account for the specified properties. The Commissioner, mandated to issue the notice, is also given deeming jurisdiction over the judge’s children. All earlier proceedings, which may have vested any rights over the taxpayers, are terminated upon court orders. Although the properties concerned were purchased outside the period of time in which the tax returns remain subject to scrutiny under law (i.e. five plus one year), this fact is rendered immaterial.The court further appeared at pains to draw such specific parameters as to define the timeline within which the notices shall be issued, the manner in which it shall be deemed to have been served, the form of response that shall be entertained, the way in which any delay or adjournment on account of non-availability of the respondents within the country is to be dealt, the number of days within which the proceedings shall be concluded as also the order written, the person designated to prepare a report thereupon and the exact manner in which it would shuttle from office to office until it reaches the SJC, which shall exercise its ordained suo moto powers thereupon. Hence, all but in name, we already have another complaint pending, the cause whereof is yet to be written.The order, still, does not stop there. It goes beyond to propose the manner of the SJC proceedings if such report does not reach the concerned quarters, and indicates the action which may be taken against the judge and other persons upon such failure. Lastly, it arduously yearns to take away the right of appeal, a right much protected and preserved in history, so that the Commissioner’s order shall be the sole basis of any determination against the judge, except if the SJC deems it appropriate to take into account any appellate proceedings.Hence, everyone portraying this a battle for independence of judiciary must hold their horses. This is no time to rejoice.One prays that scales have not shifted, yet again, in favor of pragmatism and expedience, at the cost of unadulterated and well-meaning justice. Across the board and equal for all. We know it too well now that injustice leads to tyranny and despotism. The natural corollary whereof is chaos."
Web Desk,Reforms in Pakistan’s Civil Service,2020-07-01,"Without reforming recruitment, reform is not possibleBy: Anwar AliMediocrity has become the hallmark of Pakistan’s civil service. Maladies are rampant and numerous ranging from stupor, ineptitude, underperformance to misconduct.In the beginning of June, Civil Service Reforms supremo Dr Ishrat Hussain revealed to the media the reform agenda the incumbent government carries for Pakistan’s civil service. The major focus of Hussain’s talk was on the bureaucratic structure and system to undergo transformation. The gamut of emphasis was from induction, recruitment, training, performance, promotion, salary, compensation, and retirement to institution building, devolution, accountability and service delivery.The fallacy driving Hussain is that the mode of induction can be improved to add substance to the reform agenda. Hussain refuses to see the pre-induction state of affairs run by the Federal Public Service Commission (FPSC), which conducts a yearly examination of Central Superior Services (CSS) for recruitment in Basic Pay Scale 17. If the induction process is flawed, recruitment cannot contribute to the reform agenda. In the heart of the recruitment process lies the FPSC, without reforming which the whole superstructure of reforms in Pakistan’s civil service would be redundant.On 17 June, the FPSC declared the final result of CSS-2019. If Hussain should bother to pick up and read English essays of first ten successful candidates to fathom the quality of induction, he Hussain should see to what extent the essays bore a shred of originality, to what extent the essays were relevant to the topics asked, and to what extent the essays expressed analysis. Hussain would find the top ten successful candidates attempting one of three essays: (a) New war fronts lie in economic zones, (b) Democracy and illiteracy do not move together, and (c) Expanding information technology: a curse or blessing. The reason is that the FPSC is infatuated with a few topics such as education, poverty, illiteracy, population, feminism, women rights, corruption, democracy, terrorism, energy crisis, global warming, social media, and the CPEC. These are oft-repeated topics and these are anybody’s guess.Pakistan’s civil service has been faltering to provide effective governance and sound public services. The FPSC is a partner in crime. Without reforming the examination system of the FPSC, no induction is fruitful and no reform agenda is effectiveOn these topics are existing now generational essays loaded with quotations and statistics to dupe an examiner into believing that the candidate has produced a high quality original essay. Generational essays are the essays that travel from father to son and from an elder brother and sister to younger ones. A variation is also the manufactured essays that teachers hand down to their pupils every year gilded with the lofty claims of a hundred percent guarantee of success.On the part of candidates appearing for the examination, the only trick required is to shuffle adroitly the points and statistics given in these generational and manufactured essays to produce a desired stuff to show as if the candidate had spent months to gather the expressed knowledge. The moment the essay-checker is tricked into believing the pretense, the task is accomplished. This is how the FPSC is a main agency of recruiting the candidates who not only rely on rote learning, but who also know how to dupe an examiner. The successful candidates are considered the cream of Pakistan– the cream that cannot write an original essay to produce new knowledge and the cream that relies on the cramming and regurgitation of knowledge. When this cream is permitted to run the administrative affairs of the country, no reform can yield results. Reforms are bound to founder on the ailing decrepit system that the FPSC erects every year.In principle, the purpose of examining an essay, as a compulsory subject, is to see if a candidate has developed an ability to produce original new knowledge in an organized convincing manner entailing a plausible conclusion. That is it. When this objective collapses, the whole idea of conducting the examination of an English essay is defeated.In the past few years, it has been observed that some officials of the FPSC whisper in the ears of the heads of certain CSS coaching academies the best guess on English essays. Mostly CSS coaching academies running businesses in Islamabad and Lahore avail themselves of this privilege. Similarly, to these academies the names of head examiners setting papers for compulsory and optional subjects are leaked. The leakage helps the recipients guess the preferred area of the examiner to ask questions from and the way answers should be constructed.Hussain does not know that the FPSC is lax to the connections of its officials with CSS coaching academies. For instance, the FPSC made the latest changes in the CSS syllabus in 2016. With that, a chain of favouritism burgeoned. Writers and book publishers with right connections got their books approved by the FPSC to be included in the recommended book list for compulsory and optional subjects. Similarly, a book publisher got its magazine recommended by the FPSC as the FPSC-approved official magazine for CSS candidates. Reportedly, three FPSC officials were monetarily compensated for extending this favour. Nobody knows what criterion of inclusion or exclusion the FPSC established for selecting a book or a magazine for recommendation.Hussain should also be interested in understanding the reason for the CSS candidates with a degree from either Lahore University of Management Sciences or Lahore School of Economics opting for the subject of Punjabi. When a member of the English chirping class opts for Punjabi in the CSS examination, there must be some science to it. The answer, however, is simple. Like other regional languages, Punjabi holds the potential for giving more than 80 percent marks which create a world of difference when an average optional subject is oozing out 60 percent marks. It is not known what role any excellence in Punjabi plays in the official and professional development of a civil servant, other than offering a hoist to ratchet up overall marks of the candidate. Hussain should tell the nation the way any brilliance in regional languages contributes to the construction of careers of civil servants.The base line is simple: Pakistan’s civil service has been faltering to provide effective governance and sound public services. The FPSC is a partner in crime. Without reforming the examination system of the FPSC, no induction is fruitful and no reform agenda is effective.The writer can be reached at [email protected]"
Damiya Saghir,Ending seablindness,2020-07-01,"The Pakistan Navy and the maritime doctrine of PakistanThe President launched the first ever maritime doctrine on 20 December 2018. This was a huge national success as many dimensions of the doctrine need higher recognition.Among the three services, the Navy turns out to be one of the most significant. While we see armed warriors always ready to counter both external] and internal threats, Pakistan Navy ensures the protection of the boundary lines through and from the sea, especially the Indian Ocean.Pakistan’s defense is primarily Indo-centric and thus its primary defensive line is the Army. Therefore, the Pakistan Navy does not play a primary role in the initial hostilities. Thus maritime doctrine is quite different from air and military doctrines. Even if not a priority in initial hostilities, the Navy is likely to be important in a prolonged conflict to maintain Pakistan’s access to crucial sea-lanes.Pakistan’s naval contest with India is asymmetric. India has the world’s fifth largest navy, including an operational aircraft carrier, whereas Pakistan’s is far smaller and relies on hit and run tactics, utilizing its largely French-Built submarine force and US-supplied Harpoons and other anti-ship missiles. Thus it is of grave concern for Pakistan as India develops one of its own nuclear submarines which upsets the nuclear balance between the two.However since 2016, with the beginning of CPEC, Pakistan has brought about several changes, as a taskforce is set up to protect the Pak-China business and trade and provide a seal to Gwadar port. Since Gwadar is the main actor for the trade, it is the core responsibility of the Navy to create a protective environment and because of this several advancements have taken place.In 2017, Pakistan has tested its first nuclear missile submarine, as a deterrent against India. Everyone is aware of the roles of the Pakistan Army and PAF, but there remains a very lower insight into the role of the Navy.Pakistan’s naval history had been on an arduous road of formation and development but its role in the three major wars cannot be denied. From there was no formulation of maritime doctrine as wars in the beginning were primarily focused on land and air. However, the history of Navy still exists to be admired.After the 1948 war it was evident that the biggest threat to the then Royal Pakistan Navy was India, that in the early 1949 had purchased destroyers and cruisers. Pakistan on the other hand had such limited resources that it accepted that East Pakistan remained indefensible. Keeping in mind the technological advancement of India, Pakistan initiated its ‘Five Year Plan’ stating that by 1954, Pakistan should acquire four more destroyers, submarines, patrol craft, minesweepers, O class trio, seaward defense and many more things required by the RPN. However, lacking funds, Pakistan allied with the West to build up its naval requirements. From 1950 to 1959, RPN focused mainly on assisting its manpower as it has now reached a sustainable amount of equipment for which people needed to be trained. Different training programmes and high-level exercises were conducted with Royal Navy and Royal Australian and New Zealand Navies.In the 1965 War, the Navy’s instructions were to play defensive and not initiate any conflict. However, this soon converted after the IAF destroyed the PAF capabilities due to which the Navy had to turn offensive, ‘Operation Dwarka’ was conducted where the radar facilities were destroyed.Since naval defenses were weak on the eastern coast and the enemy was aware of it, they conducted an ‘Operation Python’ facing and targeting Karachi which turned out to be a huge success as many of the Pakistan navy submarines and minesweepers were destroyed. During the 1971 war, the Navy failed to counter the threat from one side. Why? Because of the communication gap.After a dreadful defeat during the 1971 war, it was a major concern to strengthen the Navy.While the Pakistan navy has remained active in protecting the national interests, it has remained far from achieving massive development. Just like army and air force, the navy has also seen India as its biggest adversary in the Indian Ocean. However, the threat has always existed, but there has been no maritime doctrine for Pakistan, leaving it most questionable as to what defensive strategies have the navy adopted. Surprisingly, none. Just like Pakistan’s foreign policy, in practice the Navy’s acts can be related to a strategy or doctrine but there has existed no stated doctrine.Pakistan cannot be criticized in not having a doctrine for a very long time as the culture of formulating a maritime doctrine begin in 1996 with Great Britain being the first, followed by many others like South Africa, Australia and lately India. India drafted its first doctrine in 2002 and in 2009 produced a second edition. This was a challenge for Pakistan.The draft formulation came forward in 2016, but the work for drafting a maritime doctrine begin way back in 2000, even before India’s. From the very beginning Pakistan had remained dependent on the modal frameworks created by the great powers, and been copying the international systems rather than coming up with our own. When the quest for creating a doctrine began, many believed the British doctrine is enough for Pakistan to follow with a few changes.This doctrine and its points of need provide a fundamental basis of how the maritime strategy is supposed to be performed. When we are talking about the strategy, its foundation rest in a doctrine. While strategy steers development and employment of forces, a doctrine serves as a landmark in common understanding and translating beliefs into actions.The contributing writer and drafter of the doctrine, Cdre (retd) Azam Khan, stated that the biggest unfortunate event for the threats prevalent in the IOR is that although there are 36 littoral states in the IOR, but none of them have a unified cooperation. There exists a massive level grouping between the states that rather than accommodating the challenges, triggers them even further. These groups are divided into four zones that have built up their own disputes among each other. The zone in which Pakistan lies has three other nations, India, Iran, and Oman. He stated that Pakistan has settled all the disputes with Iran and Oman, the only outstanding issue is with India, Sir Creek.The formation of maritime doctrine currently targets the future coming threats from the activation of Gwadar seaport with China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). Khan stressed the biggest threat was the formation of powerful blocks. On one side the US Navy is fully supporting the Indian Navy and on the other Pakistan Navy is collaborating with the Chinese Navy. Once trade begins, it will magnify the task of Pakistan Navy in terms of trade. It will only include protecting our own imports and exports, but the Navy would also have to ensure that national sea lines are protected and safeguarded. With the drafting of the maritime doctrine, the role and the character of the Pakistan Navy gets a clear vision.With the change in the meaning of national security, now confronting not only war activities but several dynamics of sea, the national security includes new elements and new domains. The naval performance is focused to enhance in the continuum borders on social and human security on one extreme to the territorial security at the other.The maritime infrastructure along the coast and in Pakistan’s area of interest is projected to increase in the foreseeable future. The commercial activities and port-related infrastructure, a large network of communications and pipelines along the Makran coast, tourism and development and exploration work in Pakistan’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), are all expected to expand. Any hostile attempts to hinder the sea line of communication by an adversary can have a serious impact. For this reason, the activities of CPEC, its development and progressive success has benefits for the Pakistan navy. Better economy, better infrastructure leading to its better performance.When the main concentration of any country remains on land, large segments of population become averse to matters of the ocean. In the process, despite historical baggage that we did not invest enough in the Pakistan Navy, and though we could not give a tough fight in 1971 to protect East Pakistan, we did not learn any lesson. However, now the focus of the world is shifting to the sea due to the shrinking land resources, populations are growing, and countries are becoming more dependent on sea resources.The Indo-Pacific region is becoming the major concern. The South China Sea and western Indian Ocean are two important places where the world expects the major friction to take place. Navies are being bolstered for asserting dominance and serving political ends. Major powers have started rebalancing their naval forces and co-opting strategic partners to ensure unimpeded control of seas. In this global competition for the dominance of sea, the world is experiencing a rivalry to maintain its status of an eminent naval power for the future. Thus, Pakistan, with the formulation of this doctrine stands very much in the line."
Amjed Jaaved,Narendra Modi on horns of dilemma?,2020-06-30,"Chinese `Go’ versus Indian ChessCongress leader Rahul Gandhi called chest-thumping Narendra Modi `surrender Modi’. While addressing the all-party conference, Prime Minister Modi said, “Neither have they[Chinese] intruded into our border, nor has any post been taken over by them (China)”. He added, “no one can take even an ‘inch of the land’ The media alleged that China had taken over 640 sq km of Ladakh territory. This fact had been recorded by former foreign secretary Shyam Saran in his 2013 report. But, this allegation was rebutted not only by Saran himself but also by former Defence Minister AK Antony. Even “The Indian army denied that Ladakh had shrunk. Change in the river course was cited as a reason for the loss of 500-1,500 metres of land annually.Shortly after, India warned China not to alter the status quo ante. Modi’s reaction epitmises the ‘fight or flight response’. Despite whirlwind tours of forward airfields, he did not threaten China with surgical strikes.India had been nibbling at China all along the Line Of Actual Control. Both countries had been strengthening their infrastructure since Doklam faceoff.China was particularly irked at India’s unilateral reorganising of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, and India’s opposition to the $60-billion China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). China wanted to pre-empt India from dominating the Durbuk-DBO road, to strengthen its position in the Fingers area, and halt the construction of link roads in Galwan-Pangong Tso [salt lake].The Galwan hills protrude into the lake like fingers. They are numbered 1 to 8 from west to east. According to India, the LAC lies at Finger 8, but China points to Finger 4. John Bolton’s memoirs The Room Where It Happened should be an eye opener for India. The USA, under America-First. props up India as a proxy gladiator against China. But, in reality, `India was of “marginal concern of the US national security advisor during his term in office. Bolton did not take the India-Pakistan border clash of 2019 very seriously’. Sanjaya Baru points out `Former NSA Bolton’s book raises questions about US commitment to India’s national security.’There are shrill calls in India to boycott Chinese products. But an economic blockade is a lot easier said than done. So far India and China have only delayed entry of goods into each other’s country. The Indian Railways cancelled a Rs.4.71-billion contract for signaling equipment with the Chinese Beijing National Railway Research and Design Institute of Signal and Communication, citing inadequate pace of work. The contract, signed in 2016, was for Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited. In the telecom sector, BSNL has indicated that it will not use Chinese equipment for 4G upgradation.India was able to create difficulties for Pakistan through US support. The freedom struggle in Kashmir was portrayed as `terrorism’. However, Bolton’s book reveals that India does not figure prominently in USA’s national security calculus. US administrations view India-USA relations through the lens of nuclear non-proliferation, Afghanistan exit and China-Russia relations.Yet India remains a major importer of crucial Chinese antibiotics and pharmaceutical ingredients, telecom equipment and semi-conductor devices. China’s investment in India has jumped by leaps and bounds. They rose from $1.6 billion in 2014 to $8 billion in 2017. These are in sectors as broad-based as automobiles, electronics and pharmaceuticals and are across the country. One of the top destinations is Gujarat, which the BJP has ruled for 19 years. Other States such as Haryana, Karnataka and Maharashtra also received Chinese investments in infrastructure projects over the past decade. The 2018 report titled “Impact of Chinese Goods on Indian Industry” pointed out that bilateral trade between India and China increased from $38 billion in 2007-08 to $89.6 billion in 2017-18, and of this, the rise in imports from China was of $50 billion, while Indian exports increased only by $2.5 billion. The report further pointed out that trade with China constituted more than 40 percent of India’s total trade deficit. It identified several key areas where Chinese trade was galloping, including pharmaceuticals, solar power and textiles. Iye noted that China was even dominating the firecracker industry. According to the report, India’s dependence on China for life-saving drugs was 90 percent, and in solar energy China’s penetration was up to 84 percent.To India’s chagrin, Nepal legislatively amended its maps to show Kala Pani and some other areas as part of Nepalese territory. It allowed China to occupy Gorkha Rui village and strategic lands at 11 places across Nepal, around 36 hectares in four districts.Differing strategies: Chinese strategist Sun Tzu’s aphorism says “If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles”.Wily India is playing chess with China to checkmate it. But, China is playing the strategy game “igo”, commonly known as “Go”. It is played on a much larger board 19×19 sides resulting in 361 points, compared to 64 squares in ghess.In Go, the stones are positioned on the “intersections” of the squares to deny “liberty” to the opponent’s stones. Go also has white and black pieces called stones, but that is where the similarity with chess ends.The objective of Go is not to capture any single piece; instead, it is to surround a larger total area of the board with one’s stones before the opponent. As the game progresses, the players position stones on the board to map out formations and potential territories.Contests between opposing formations result in the expansion, reduction, or capture and loss of stones. The winner is decided by counting each player’s surrounded territory along with captured stones.China has been playing Go, on a multi-dimensional canvas much larger than the Indian landmass and across several spectra, ranging from the military to the economic “intersections”, blocking India’s “liberty” or maneuverability over a long period.It was India, not China, which set the ball rolling at roulette. India allowed its troops to use arms against China if necessary. This discretion is contrary to four India-China bilateral agreements on maintaining peace and tranquility at the India-China border. These were concluded in 1993, 1996, 2005 and 2013, over a period of 20 years. The use of arms by Indian forces when engaging with Chinese counterparts will inevitably lead to similar action by the latter. Realizing the pitfalls of using arms, India has pulled back angry troops to the hinterland.Doklam incident opened China’s eyes. There India intervened and stopped China road work at ostensibly Bhutan’s request (India has no border with China at Doklam). It appears that China knows what India has up its sleeve.Stobden in a newspaper article last year `China’s past border tactics, especially in Central Asia, offer India a clue’points out, `If India falls for some kind of Chinese position over Aksai Chin, Beijing will then shift the focus to Arunachal to emphatically claim 90,000 sq km from India. Ceding Aksai Chin would fundamentally alter the status of J&K and Ladakh’. No more integral part. Just `might is right’ or `jis ki lathi us ki bhains‘ (he who has the staff, has the cow).India was able to create difficulties for Pakistan through US support. The freedom struggle in Kashmir was portrayed as `terrorism’. However, Bolton’s book reveals that India does not figure prominently in USA’s national security calculus. US administrations view India-USA relations through the lens of nuclear non-proliferation, Afghanistan exit and China-Russia relations.India is envious of China’s growing economic clout. Fear of rising China may lead to more confrontations like the recent one on the Sikkim border."
Web Desk,Brain drain or academic asylum?,2020-06-30,"The freedom to think can have a prohibitive costBy: Zainab NajeebWhen I was coming back to Pakistan after completing my masters in the UK, I was met with pitying eyes and words of comfort, as if I had lost something vital enough to be publicly mourned. The loss can typically be imagined in relation to the apparent lack of freedom of mobility, security and the general ease a woman fails to experience in Pakistan, but it honestly is far greater than roaming around cobbled streets after midnight. The loss is political which makes it all the more personal.Young Pakistani academics who go abroad experience an unregulated freedom; their research papers circle around issues that one thinks twice before addressing among a group of friends or even social media (especially social media). It is not that foreign and former imperialists give Pakistani students a voice, far from it. What is gained is not the pen but the paper, a platform, research tools, academic rigour and peace of mind to pursue a topic without fearing for one’s life. Research in itself is not a process of aggrandisement, it is supposed to make you feel uncomfortable, it is supposed to raise questions that if not asked will contribute to the ever growing fort of silence barricading local knowledge production.A friend decided not to publish her Political Science dissertation online, despite the professional benefits, because she did not want to come “under the radar.” Another friend is endlessly pining for an international scholarship only to leave and do what he wants to do the most: write fearlessly, learn endlessly. Another friend is willing to do anything and everything to not come back after her masters from the USA because she knows her opinions will land her in even hotter water back home. After legitimising my presence nearer to the white board harboured in my prized foreign degree stamp, I stand in front of my students, giving disingenuous disclaimers or making empty jokes so that they know I am not “anti-state”, a title thrown around like the emperor’s old clothes.According to K. K. Aziz, “The goal (of education in Pakistan) is to produce a generation with the following traits; docility, inability to ask questions, capacity to indulge in pleasurable illusions, pride in wearing blinkers, willingness to accept guidance from above, alacrity to like and dislike things by order, tendency to ignore gaps in one’s knowledge, enjoyment of make-believe, faith in the high value of pretences.”What we conveniently label as the brain drain, the faithless betrayal of those who manage to get out to never return, can be seen as academic asylum: academic refugees displaced, listlessly knocking on foreign doors for a room of their own. I know too many students, contemporaries and seniors who treat a scholarship as a golden ticket because they know that they will be finally allowed the mental space to produce critical work without fearing for their lives, livelihoods and professional credibility. Those who choose to come back are an anomaly, labelled as naïve or adventurous, people who are put in their place by the all powerful status quo.The deliberate de-platforming of professors like Dr Ammar Ali Jan, Dr Pervez Hoodbhoy, and Muhammad Hanif from universities in two of Pakistan’s most metropolitan cities is an ode to the state-ordained wilful disengagement from critical thinking. Critical thinking is a buzzword now, ornamenting higher education institutions in Pakistan, with any attempt to practice it resulting in a slap on the wrist. Interestingly, it is a popular assumption in Pakistan that the critical thinkers, the writers, the artists, the teachers, the activists don’t have to pay the ever-growing list of bills. They will find a way to get by.Also, harkening towards a more customary dramatic turn of events, around 80 students were arrested in Quetta for peacefully protesting against the digital divide that is literally impeding their right to education. I want to put it as plainly as possible for the ever-resistant ears of those in control: if there is no Internet there can be no online classes. If students do not have the right to raise their concerns then how else are we to move around this business of education? Do the HEC and education ministries want to pretend their way out of this mess? Or use police batons as wands to erase the stark oppression of the students’ right to mobilise? Or simply imagine that there is no digital inequality and it is every student for himself? The precedent has definitely been set after the sedition case was filed against some of the organisers and participants (including Dr Jan) following the Student Solidarity March.When students and teachers are villanised, suppressed and silenced, it is not an unintentional consequence or a spill-over effect of a decadent education system, it is a strategic dismissal of those who do not treat education as a business but as an intrinsic struggle towards intellectual growth. It is a well-crafted reduction of the education system to a tool of propagating a specific, state-sanctioned, self-fulfilling nationalism where dissent is treason, activism is criminal and critical thinking is blasphemous.According to K. K. Aziz, “The goal (of education in Pakistan) is to produce a generation with the following traits; docility, inability to ask questions, capacity to indulge in pleasurable illusions, pride in wearing blinkers, willingness to accept guidance from above, alacrity to like and dislike things by order, tendency to ignore gaps in one’s knowledge, enjoyment of make-believe, faith in the high value of pretences.” Those who don’t seem themselves in this checklist, seek refuge in places where they can write about what they have left behind. Those who cannot afford this privilege are criminalised for living their politics. And those who either adapt to the mores or find it exhausting to raise their hands to ask questions, become model citizens."
Malik Muhammad Ashraf,Indian delusions about Azad and Indian-Held Kashmir,2020-06-30,"India should not take wishes for realityIndian Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in a video address to Jammu Jan Samvad rally recentally said that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership Jammu and Kashmir would touch great heights in the next five years to the extent that even the people of AJK would wish to be with IndiaHe is one of the Indian hard=line leaders who are in denial mode about the ground realities of Kashmir and claim it as India’s integral part. He is on record to have repeatedly said that if ever talks with Pakistan were held on Kashmir they would be in regard to the area of Kashmir under Pakistan’s control.His statement, rightly and strongly rejected by Pakistan, is nothing but the dream of a lunatic who believes in the illusions he is obsessed with. First of all he needs to be reminded that the very basis on which India started claiming Kashmir as its integral part was challenged and rejected by the UN back in the 1950s through its resolutions 91 and 122, unequivocally reiterating that the question of accession of Kashmir could not be settled by any means other than a plebiscite held under the auspices of the UN. India has also accepted Kashmir as a disputed territory in the Simla Agreement and Lahore Declaration as well.The UN Security Council has thrice held discussions on Kashmir in the wake of Indian action ending the special status of the state and making it part of the Indian Union through the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act 2019, reiterating that the issue of Kashmir needed to be resolved in conformity with the UN Charter and relevant resolutions. It clearly is a rejection of the Indian claims. The world community also has not only refused to accept the Indian narrative of the issue being its internal matter but has also expressed grave concern over the ever worsening situation in IOK after 5 August last year.The Spokesperson of Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs was right on money to remind the Indian Minister ”The international opprobrium over the BJP government’s human rights violations in IOJ&K has been unequivocal, including inter alia three UNSC consultations for the first time in about five decades, US Congressional hearings, discussions in parliaments around the world especially the EU, condemnation by international human rights and humanitarian organizations, scores of parliamentarians, hundreds of editorials and op-eds in reputed international newspapers and magazines, and offers of mediation by different world leaders.”Regional peace and security is hostage to the hegemonic streak of India. The developing situation calls for the immediate intervention of the UNSC as the peace-maintaining organ of the UN before its aggression assumes cataclysmic proportions. The Indian leadership should also understand that their brinkmanship is not going to resolve the issues that bedevil relations between the two countries. It is in the interest of both India and Pakistan that the mutual disputes be resolved in the light of the UN resolutions and the ground realtiesThe latest repudiation of the Indian stance on Kashmir has come from UK Labour Party Leader Keir Starmer who, in response to an enquiry from the Muslim Council of Britain on 11 May, clarified that the Labour Party’s position on Kashmir had not changed, and it still supported and recognized the UN resolutions on the right of the people of KashmirThe Brussels Times recently published a report titled “Kashmir Under Double Lockdown despite EU Protest” claiming that in two separate letters addressed to President of European Commission recently, a number of members of the European parliament raised both the situation in Kashmir and the human rights situation in India. In the recent one written on 1st June it was observed “There are cases where it feels like the EU is not doing everything we can: this is the case of Kashmir, probably the world’s long running conflict.” The MPs called on the EU leadership to express concern with the Indian government and to call on India to fulfill its international legal obligations, including investigations of human rights abuses in Kashmir.Belgian human rights activist and journalist Andy Vermant, in an op-ed in The Brussels Times also called for an EU probe into violations of human rights in Indian ruled Kashmir.The Indian Minister also needs to be jolted about the fact that what to talk of AJK ever joining India in accordance with his illusions, even the people of Indian-Occupied Jammu and Kashmir are not willing to accept Indian occupation of their land and are determined to take their struggle to its logical end, which is to achieve their right of self-determination as enunciated in the UN resolutions. The initiation of an armed struggle by them in 1989 which continues till today is glaring testimony of the fact that they want independence from India. They remain undeterred by the ruthless use of military might by the Indian security forces which have killed nearly 100,000 Kashmirs between January 1990 and 31 May 2020, resorted to 7141 custodial killings, arrested 160,487 civilians, destroyed 110,327 structures, made 22,915 women widows, orphaned 107,792 children and raped 11,204 women.The freedom movement has gained intensity since the killing of Burhan Wani on 8 July 2016. Since then 1031 Kashmir youth have been killed, the custodial death count stands at 68, 27,739 have been subjected to torture, 933 women have been gang-raped, 10,298 people have been injured by pellet guns, 147 youth have lost their eyesight through injury by pellet guns and 951 people have been detained under the Public Safety Act.The International media, in spite of denial of access to the area, has been continuously reporting about the repression and abuse of human rights in Indian-Occupied Jammu and Kashmir. No wonder that the protestors during their rallies against the Indian atrocities have been carrying the Pakistani flag showing their preference regarding the accession of the state. In view of the foregoing facts, to claim that the people of Indian-Occupied Jammu and Kashmir were with India and the people of AJK would wish to join India impressed by the progress made under the Modi regime, is the most preposterous suggestion ever.India may have unilaterally changed the status of the state through a parliamentary decree but it cannot change the ground realities. The international community and the UN do not accept the Indian action as legal and continue to urge upon India to revisit its decision and also stop the human rights violation in the Valley.The fact is that India is acting like a war-like state. It has disputes with almost all its neighbours. The ongoing border clashes between India and China, and continued belligerent Indian posture against Pakistan as reflected through daily violations of the ceasefire along the Line of Control as well its indiscretion to hit imaginary terrorist camps in Pakistan last February, speak volumes about the designs of the Modi regime inebriated by the RSS ideology. Regional peace and security is hostage to the hegemonic streak of India. The developing situation calls for the immediate intervention of the UNSC as the peace-maintaining organ of the UN before its aggression assumes cataclysmic proportions. The Indian leadership should also understand that their brinkmanship is not going to resolve the issues that bedevil relations between the two countries. It is in the interest of both India and Pakistan that the mutual disputes be resolved in the light of the UN resolutions and the ground realties."
Hasan Aftab Saeed,On Russell’s teapot,2020-06-30,"And the way it continues to be misusedBertrand Russell’s teapot made its first appearance in ‘Is there a God’, an article which was commissioned but never published by Illustrated magazine. Of course, coming from a man as important as Russell, it was not long before people were talking about it anyway. Of course, Russell also made it a point to repeat it later. It remains one of the favourite arrows in the quiver of the atheist community ever since.The essay can now be found in Russell’s collected papers. Its principal shortcoming, as is usual in articles of this nature, is that it chooses to attack particularly attackable definitions of god (which are frankly not very intelligent). It therefore suffers from the same drawback as his famous essay ‘Why I am not a Christian’. To be fair to Russell, in the case of the latter the title claims no more; but the title of the former advertises more than what Russell delivers in the text.So, what is Russell’s teapot? In Russell’s own words: ‘Many orthodox people speak as though it were the business of sceptics to disprove received dogmas rather than of dogmatists to prove them. This is, of course, a mistake. If I were to suggest that between the Earth and Mars there is a China teapot revolving about the sun in an elliptical orbit, nobody would be able to disprove my assertion provided I were careful to add that the teapot is too small to be revealed even by our most powerful telescopes. But if I were to go on to say that, since my assertion cannot be disproved, it is intolerable presumption on the part of human reason to doubt it, I should rightly be thought to be talking nonsense.’ While Russell’s teapot is fine if it is used to place the burden of proof where it belongs, it doesn’t quite do the job it is employed most often for; that is, ‘solving’ the God problem. Let me explain.Russell, who is otherwise painstakingly meticulous, was guilty of a similar readiness to settle for a less-than-satisfactory argument that he recounts in his autobiography. Granted, he was only eighteen then, but he tells the story as an old man and seems satisfied with the argument.No intelligent theological system proposes to ‘prove’ the existence of God. God is not just another physical object (like a teapot). The God I am talking about is a Transcendent God that is outside the scheme of things – that is, One Who is the Creator of laws of the universe and is not subject to them. He is ‘present’ everywhere, and at all times in the sense that his Will (or the laws of the universe) and His knowledge pervade everything. But being Independent of time and space, He cannot be said to be confined to a certain time or locality. This God cannot be proven any more than it can be disproven. That is, that there is One – and only One – God is the most basic axiom in this system, not a theorem to be proved. Like all axioms, you cannot prove this axiom, but your whole metaphysical framework collapses without it. Russell was no stranger to axioms. He is on record regarding his disappointment when he learned from his brother (who was an early tutor of his) that Euclid’s axioms were to be accepted without proof, because they could not be proved. He says he almost quit studying geometry – What was the point of studying if everything could not be proved? He reluctantly admitted them, as anybody interested in making progress must, for that is the way the human mind words. I am not sure many of those who habitually employ Russell’s teapot understand this.According to the Quran, God is a necessary item without which there is no completing one’s metaphysical picture, try as one might. Starting from some more basic axioms and then seeking to ‘prove’ God is a foolish exercise to start with; for that God would then depend on those axioms. The Quran says that God is Absolute (depends on nothing), while everything else depends on Him.Russell, who is otherwise painstakingly meticulous, was guilty of a similar readiness to settle for a less-than-satisfactory argument that he recounts in his autobiography. Granted, he was only eighteen then, but he tells the story as an old man and seems satisfied with the argument. Before going to Cambridge, he had rejected life after death and accompanying religious beliefs but having no answer to the ‘First Cause’ argument, he still believed in God. He became an atheist when he read Mill’s Autobiography where the latter narrated that his father had taught him that the question ‘Who made me?’ cannot be answered because it immediately begs the further question ‘Who made God?’ The problem with this argument is that it presupposes that somebody must have created God, something not held by many theists; according to whom you, me, our China teapot and the universe are all contingent entities whereas God, being a necessary being, is Eternal. We know that the same cannot be said about the universe. The most hardened atheist, if he knows his science, will tell you that the universe had a start.Tailpiece: To criticise one’s hero is not at all easy, but it is something I am sure Russell would have approved of. That said, considering his immense body of work spanning so many subjects, Russell gives surprisingly few hostages to his critics. Most of his work has spectacularly stood the test of time, and he remains one of the most influential thinkers of all time. Moreover, when it comes to expressing difficult and nuanced concepts in clear and elegant prose there is nobody who even comes close."
Shah Nawaz Mohal,Dead Democracy,2020-06-30,"From Socrates till now, how the ‘flawed’ idea of Democracy baffles mankindDemocracy, dear reader, has bid us farewell on its way to spend the rest of the eternity in perdition. We have murdered its essence and kept its forlorn form for exhibition. Creation of Greeks nurtured by Brits and spread all over the world as final panacea, democracy had its heyday all over the world after WW-II but is now slowly, but certainly becoming a pariah in many of the kingdoms it once reigned.Democracy, both as an ideal perfected over millennia in the hearts of philosophers and as a system realized by sacrifices of millions of ordinary, forgettable mortals is imperiled in our age. A bad press coupled with mass disenchantment among folks who thought of it as a tool of economic prosperity that failed to deliver rather than a mode to politically govern their lot has relegated its splendid past track record to the ash heap of history.In these pages I’ve written multiple times that during the last century, the lofty ideals of democracy were under siege by Fascism, Nazisim and Communism all over the world. The democracy backed by capitalist block prevailed while the fascists and Nazis crashed and burned during the Second World War. USSR, the birthplace of communism in practice, too went the way of dinosaurs half a century later. The democracy that fought and prevailed over behemoths and giants has surrendered when it was confronted by internal seams, frustrated masses and populist politicians.The original sin that refuses to go away in our land is mistaking our adversaries for enemies, enemies for well-wishers, and allies for opponents. On a daily basis, we hear, read and see many alterations of the above lines; sometimes they are bold and brash, at others they are subtle and suggestive.Our world, as it reels on the cusp of dissatisfaction and misery, is once again looking for a deliverer who can usher in freedom, wealth and prosperity for the downtrodden and the precarious lot of the world. And unfortunately, the whole edifice of democracy with all its bells and minarets, its glory and grandeur stands crippled beyond repair or redemption. It wouldn’t be an overstatement to say that democracy as a form of government is undergoing its worst existential crisis ever. In the past, it was the singular object of derision of few philosophers and thinkers. Today, the majority of the masses have turned either indifferent or downright contemptuous of it.‘Tis how the mighty have fallen. ‘Tis How bruised it is.’ Tis its end is nigh.One needs not to look further than Socrates to prepare a case against democracy. Socrates, one of the most revered of philosophers, attacked democracy in its heyday in Athens. His argument was simple and gripping. Socrates asked how a government, by majority be just and virtuous when in any society those having knowledge and intelligence are always a minority. Socrates is long dead. Athens of his time is buried under tons of debris. Democracy is all set to go the way of Socrates and Athens. It’ll become an idea, a memory, a word, an artifact; nothing more, maybe less, certainly less. A derided, loathsome creature common people will forget like they have forgotten minor Victorian novelists who only the academics have to read, students have to read to pass the exam, and that is that.Pakistan’s tale of democracy since independence has been a saga of hope, betrayal and disillusionment. During the first ten years, we had had seven prime ministers. Almost all of them were at the forefront of Pakistan’s Independence movement. Courtesy the palace intrigues coupled with undue interference from the civilian bureaucracy and military junta one after the other they bit the dust making way for the first all-powerful uniformed ‘democrat’ i.e. Ayub Khan.The original sin that refuses to go away in our land is mistaking our adversaries for enemies, enemies for well-wishers, and allies for opponents. On a daily basis, we hear, read and see many alterations of the above lines; sometimes they are bold and brash, at others they are subtle and suggestive. There are droves of lads chatting away the ills and dilemmas facing ‘people’ of Pakistan at dhaba and political pundits sell their souls on countless talk shows in their bid to awaken the ‘masses’ from their slumber.We love the ghost of democracy that casts its pall on our land so much, that even the rotten smell of its corpse is not disturbing us one bit.On goes our march, on goes our life. On goes dead, dead democracy.Let us see when the final whistle blows. Let us see when the final curiosity withers. Let us wait and watch and behold the demise of an idea that was beautiful in the beginning and when we realized it, it turned every reality ugly."
Khadijah Ahmad,A paucity of shared vision,2020-06-30,"Use the CCI to fight the virus with unityAmidst the global fragility caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, and the havoc that it has wreaked in our country, a tussle over resource division and realms of responsibility continues to grow between the Federation and its units. The Centre has been criticised for revisiting the 18th amendment and the devolution of powers, and for contemplating the imposition of additional fiscal burden on the provinces through the 10th NFC Award. The federal government, on its end, has stressed upon the provinces’ inability to deliver in this health crisis. As a result, despite the National Action Plan for COVID-19 recognising the significance of a well-coordinated approach against the novel coronavirus, all calls of harmony have echoed hollow at the national and provincial levels in Pakistan.The disease does not respect political boundaries, and the disharmony in central and provincial approaches has paved way for the virus mushrooming across the country. This is in stark contrast to the nation-wide solidarity exhibited by China when the pandemic first broke out in the province of Hubei. A “one province helps one city” policy was announced by China’s Cabinet, and various provincial-level administrations were activated to assist the virus-affected cities of Hubei. The strategy of pairing one province with one city proved to be fruitful since each city’s individual needs were met by utilizing the resources of the partner province. In this manner, a network of partnerships was created demonstrating the resolution of the central leadership, and the cooperation of the provincial authorities. The goal was simple and devoid of political disagreements: “defeat the virus”. The partnerships were a vivid embodiment of the commitment of the Chinese people to “a community of shared future”- something Pakistan’s government and its citizens have been unable to fathom.The Centre has been criticised for revisiting the 18th amendment and the devolution of powers, and for contemplating the imposition of additional fiscal burden on the provinces through the 10th NFC Award.The problem does not lie in the absence of relevant fora, but, rather, in the absence of the will to mobilize them. In a public webinar conducted by the Joint Action Committee for People’s Rights, when asked about the absence of a well-coordinated national strategy against the coronavirus, Mr. Afrasiab Khattak remarked that the lack of strategy was not due to the existence of any hurdles per se, but the lack of a federal will to formulate one. In doing so, he pointed towards Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan’s decision to not attend parliamentary sessions dedicated to COVID-19. Irrespective of whether Minister Shibli Faraz’s justifications that the PM was otherwise occupied were correct, a coordinated and well-thought-out response to this crisis is paramount.In this regard, the potential role of the Council of Common Interests (CCI), and its secretariat, the Ministry of Inter-Provincial Coordination (MIPC) is critical. Amongst others, the MIPC is mandated to promote uniformity in the formulation and implementation of policy among the Provinces and the Centre in “all fields of common concern.” This pandemic is, justifiably, a matter of ‘common concern’ that deserves to be addressed.Back in 2018, the CCI demonstrated no hesitation in tackling the issue of rapid population growth, and issued clear directions to the Ministry of National Health Services Regulations and Coordination (MoNHSRC) to prepare an action plan for population control. The National Action Plan spelled out financial modalities for operationalizing the CCI’s recommendations after consulting relevant stakeholders. The MoNHSRC, after a series of discussions, prepared a plan identifying the actions required to implement each of CCI’s recommendations along with the intended timelines, respective budgets, and the body responsible for effectuating them. A Federal Task Force was created to monitor the performance of the plan, ensure funding, and encourage partnerships among private and public stakeholders. Therefore, a recent precedent exists where attempts were made to build a national narrative with the aim of achieving a countrywide consensus on a matter of public significance. Conversely, the current action plan to tackle the pandemic is unclear and has generated confusion. It is, therefore, essential for the CCI to convene and issue achievable recommendations. An identification of the jurisdiction of individual entities operating in the field of healthcare in Pakistan is essential. Benchmarks need to be set, and in order to function effectively, these entities need sufficient budgetary allocations.The goal was simple and devoid of political disagreements: “defeat the virus”. The partnerships were a vivid embodiment of the commitment of the Chinese people to “a community of shared future”- something Pakistan’s government and its citizens have been unable to fathom.A mature central leadership that takes into account the provinces’ individual needs and allocates to them their due share can engender a shared vision and ensure uniformity in the fight against this lethal disease. The federal government would do well to cut down on the expansive superfluous expenditures that exist in the form of unnecessary ministries and loss-making enterprises; to mobilize the CCI and the MIPC to fulfil their obligations in such a time of crisis; and to not expect the provinces to contain the disease without appropriate funds. These steps are crucial since the veneer of Pakistan doing ‘much better’ than the rest of the world has clearly come undone, and the only rank we have recently managed to achieve is to feature among the ten countries reporting the highest cases of COVID-19.Disclaimer: This research was conducted by the CCLS and was supported by the Hanns Seidel Foundation (HSF) Pakistan. The opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official position of LUMS or HSF.Khadijah Ahmad is a Research Associate at the Centre for Chinese Legal Studies (CCLS), SAHSOL, LUMS."
Humayun Gauhar,The face of prejudice,2020-06-28,"One of the most acute manifestations of prejudice is racism. It reveals the mindset of a person and a large part of the society he or she comes from. They may be very intelligent and witty but their racism is manifest and they have perpetrated untold miseries on people of a race that they thought was inferior. That shows the basest view of people who think that theirs is a superior race. They don’t stop to think that biologically all humans are the same with similar blood groups, DNA and what have you. It is just their outside look that sets them apart─ their features and the colour of their skin. Truth to tell, white is not pigmentation but the acute lack of it. So coloured people can consider people with lack of pigmentation as inferior. That’s as far as I’ll go otherwise I’m in danger of sounding racist. Suffice it to say, that people are people and that’s the end of itBut racism causes Man to inflict untold inhumanity on people with a different look. One such racist was the oh-so-intelligent and witty Winston Churchill, once Prime Minister of Britain. Here are some of his choicest comments about other people: –“I do not agree that the dog in a manger has the final right to the manger even though he may have lain there for a very long time. I do not admit that right. I do not admit for instance, that a great wrong has been done to the Red Indians of America or the black people of Australia. I do not admit that a wrong has been done to these people by the fact that a stronger race, a higher-grade race, a more worldly wise race to put it that way, has come in and taken their place.” The “dog” here are the Palestinians whom Churchill called a “lower manifestation” and advocated the creation of the Israeli State.Churchill was a product of genocidal British Imperialism at its worst and they have gone and built monuments to him. This man of limited emotion starved four million to death in India in 1943 and has been voted the Greatest Briton of All Time. That’s a grave insult to the British. He boasted that “all who resist” (meaning the Pashtoons) “will be killed without quarter” and that the people of Afghanistan must “recognise the superiority of race.” This about a people who take great pride in their race. He wrote with great relish about the Pashtoon tribesmen who were routinely and summarily executed. Let’s go on. He advocated “self rule” of Afrikaners in South Africa and thus helped plant the seeds of apartheid. About Egypt, he said in 1959 “tell them that if we have any more of their cheek, we will set the Jews on them and drive them into the gutter, from which they should never have emerged.”In 1896, he declared on Cuba, “a grave danger represents itself. Two fifths of the insurgents in the field are negroes. These men…would in the event of success, demand a predominant share in the government…the result being after years of fighting, another Black republic.”Another racist feather in Churchill’s cap is that he ordered more that 150,000 Kenyans to be put into concentration camps as part of the land grab of fertile highlands in Kenya for white colonial settlers. Churchill called them “Blackamoors” who were raped, castrated, tortured and burnt. He introduced forced labour, which is slavery by another name. He committed genocide against the Irish, killing hundreds, kidnapping them, beating them and burning down their properties.Then Churchill ordered the British army to massacre Greek anti-Fascists in Athens in December 1944. In fact, he praised Nazi collaborators in Greece so that he could paint Communists as part of the enemy. About the Afghan campaign in 1897 he said, “We proceeded systematically, village by village, and destroyed the houses, filled up the wells, blew down the towers, cut down the great shady trees, burned the crops and broke the reservoirs in punitive devastation.”So here we have the Greatest Briton of them All. To compound their shame and embarrassment, the British have erected many statues of him all over the land including one in their Parliament building. Churchill was a highly prejudiced racist with a great sense of superiority, which is the camouflage for a sense of inferiority. They stole from their colonies, especially from India, with great abandon and thus built a powerful mercantile, industrial complex. I don’t see what the difficulty is in removing his statues except for the fact that re-written history about Churchill has so infected the British mind.This kind of racism did not end with Churchill. Today, US President Donald Trump proudly parades it for all to see. He probably hates George Floyd for having the impudence to die under the knee of a white policeman. Or all the Blacks who were killed by White policemen as if the hunting season was at its peak. In fact, I have before me a 1922 State of Missouri “nigger hunting license” that whoever pays the license fee, “is hereby licensed to hunt and kill niggers during the open season hereof in Missouri. This license must be carried on person when hunting niggers and gives the holder permission to hunt day or night with or without dogs.”This kind of licensing may have lapsed in law but it is still prevalent in the white man’s DNA considering the callous manner in which white policemen wantonly kill African Americans. The reaction has finally come and it is severe and will change America, hopefully for the better. This is what the manifestation of prejudice is all about. Not that it is unique to America; it has existed in virtually every part of the world in history but that does not justify it. Man and his society have not progressed a jot and are still victims at least of latent prejudice. I rest my case."
Mohsin Saleem Ullah,A salute where it is due,2020-06-28,"The terrorists could not have been beaten without the military“There are things known, and there are things unknown, and in between are the doors of perception,” said Aldous Huxley, an English writer, and a philosopher in his book The Doors of Perception, which had hit me up with scores of questions linked to real-life incidents happening around us, and which had convulsed my mind for a while. A phone beside me screamed to bring me back to a state of consciousness to answer it to know who had disturbed me, but it was the wavery undertone voice of a book publisher. He once in a week, makes a call to ask whether I would be interested in some new books out in the market. He continued letting me know of the book’s titles, and their renowned authors that are of my interest, but among all was a book of a distinct title Beautiful Colors of a Resilient Nation that struck my attention. To my inquisitive nature, I asked him further about it, and the author, Danish Javed, who seemed relatively a new name in the Pakistani authors list we know so far.Going through each chapter of the book revealed me a heroic story of our warriors of Pakistan Army, but also others, civilians, who have had sacrificed their lives for a greater cause in their respective fields. Whilst I continued to read the tale of stories and incidents that were never revealed to us by the media for some reason. And we, in our sheer ignorance remained unbothered about the heart-wrenching facts which would give us an insight into the unknown lives of warriors of Pakistan Army, who lost their lives fighting at the forefront, and facing off other calamities hitting our region, since the Quaid-e-Azam got us independence from India in 1947. Reading between the lines on Pakistan’s tumultuous journey of fighting three wars with India, and then down the years of simmering border tensions resulting in military skirmishes on the frontiers. The later tragic experience of combating and mopping up terrorism within the country could only be done due to the tireless efforts of the armed forces, along with many unsung civilians, whose unwavering support, and sacrificed lives have made me a prouder citizen of a country known as a resilient nation across the globe.For a long time, critics are busy running after the lost cause of demeaning the services rendered by our armed institution, which comes forward to offset the largescale damage caused by catastrophes from earthquakes in the year 2005 to floods in Sindh, and now the coronavirus pandemic gripping the country, but the list goes on. International media, and media from the hostile neighbors aren’t happy with Pakistan Army, which has been asked by the government to have their main support to support the government in running the country smoothly. Moreover, at the provincial levels, district administration folks sitting in their spacious offices, though visiting fields as well- for whom we have an equal respect, have begun spamming twitter with photos of them performing their duties. And additionally, trying to make the analogy between their salary structures, and proposed budget with that of armed forces. This new debate on social media and requesting writers to initiate a discourse on so-called discrimination done with the civil service members is quite trending these days, but through personal messages only.I’ve failed to understand that why aren’t we done with propaganda against a few institutions, which are the only ones left working transparently, and that too with some professional responsibility. The current crisis has pierced the veil of ministries, and officials who had falsely raised our hopes with their performance in the pre-coronavirus days are now making excuses for not continuing to perform well. Since the outbreak, the situation is quite self-explanatory of their failed strategies to confront the crisis, and have raised questions on their transparency, as well as the hefty embezzlement in developments funds at the provincial level, is much talked about these days, which is why the provincial governments and their departments are falling short of funds, and asking the federal government to allocate more on the pretext of combatting the coronavirus.At such critical times, when the government is at a standstill, and running in the state of chaos amid the outbreak, the armed forces have stepped forward to prevent crisis further deteriorating the situation, through their senior officials, and other associated institutions of Pakistan army, who are out to serve this nation, not for a base salary of a few thousand rupees to give up their lives, and future, but for their commitment, and with the spirit to save millions of precious lives by compromising their own in the line of their dutyAt such critical times, when the government is at a standstill, and running in the state of chaos amid the outbreak, the armed forces have stepped forward to prevent crisis further deteriorating the situation, through their senior officials, and other associated institutions of Pakistan army, who are out to serve this nation, not for a base salary of a few thousand rupees to give up their lives, and future, but for their commitment, and with the spirit to save millions of precious lives by compromising their own in the line of their duty. This what makes me recall Abraham Lincoln’s quote “Commitment is what transforms a promise into a reality.” I salute, every member of the Pakistan Army, be it a soldier who is standing at the world’s deadliest border, Line of Control (LOC), and the families of the martyred army officials, who lost their lives in the hope of saving us, and our future generations."
Web Desk,Tackling white collar crime a national imperative,2020-06-28,"Antigraft bodies should be unifiedBy: Mohib AsadThe erasure, or at least a minimization, of corruption in the body-politic of the country has been a declared agenda by all political parties, is a dream of the public, and the desire of all right-thinking citizens. All governments in this country starting from Gen Ayub Khan in the 1960s have attempted to curb the menace in their own way, and according to their own understanding of the scene. One common thread running through as a single strand is that the bulk of corruption and corrupt practices is what is termed White Collar Crime (WCC) Most suspects of this typology of crime belong to the higher economic classes, and possess several white shirts worn with lounge suits. So, for ease of classification, criminologists have coined the term WCC.Criminologists treat WCC as part of the broader category termed Organized Crime. Hundreds of detailed studies and research have identified a model of whitecollar criminality. It is an operation planned by one person, who puts together a group of informed people to assist him in skimming off funds from the public or the private sector. As opposed to other forms of organized crime, violence does not figure in WCC to a significant level, although this may not always be the case. The model of choice is:WCC needs a single leader who has business connections with government, the judiciary, and the law enforcement apparatus. The organizer has a second tier who plan the operations ordered by the leader, using a third tier of operatives who do the day-to-day chores. The third tier generally does not know the leader. WCC always preys on large sums of money, the lion’s share going to the leader. The organizer has personal influence with senior functionaries who run the criminal justice system through graft or sharing of profit.WCC is also sometimes classified as a ‘victimless crime’, as the economic loser of one of these crimes is not aware that he has been robbed merely for being an unsuspecting citizen. Thus when a politician, a bureaucrat, or a banker, skims off billions from an international tender for construction of a dam, you and I have no knowledge of the event as these matters are purposely kept opaque from the hoi polloi. Only the major actors in the scam know the details. The real victim, the taxpayer, is an ignorant bystander. No victim to register a case—so a ‘victimless crime’!Unless we clean up our act, let’s be prepared to go hat in hand to the IMF for a sixteenth bail-out in three years’ time. By then the dollar will be worth Rs 200, if present trends continueDue to the global village we live in now, with the Internet spanning all corners of the globe, WCC is now a trans-national offence. The steep rise in money laundering was noted with alarming concern by the international community in the last quarter of the 1900s. The result was the UN Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) of 2005. Pakistan is a signatory and has since ratified this treaty. The UNCAC is largely concerned with WCC, money laundering and terrorist financing.The extent of world-wide corruption was highlighted by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, when on 9 December 2018, in his message on the global Anti-corruption day, he said that around $3.6 trillion were being stolen or given in bribes each year. Most of this bleeding, which amounts to around five % of the global GDP, happens in developing countries. The Secretary-General said that “It robs societies of schools, hospitals and other vital services, drives away foreign investment and strips nations of their natural resources”. This is happening in Pakistan on a daily basis —and flagrantly.The UNCAC had suggested that there should be only one single anti-corruption agency in the member states, which can then work with other members in the area of mutual legal aid. The NAB existed at the time of signing of the UNCAC treaty by us, and logically all provincial anti-corruption departments should have been brought under its purview. This was not done due to obvious political pressure. At the moment, there are myriad agencies dealing with WCC and affiliated offences.Over the last two decades, hundreds of cases have been registered with the NAB, FIA, and the provincial anti-corruption departments. Although the conviction rate is low, yet hundreds of accused persons have been jailed, and billions recovered in cash and property. Yet, the image of the agencies responsible for putting down corruption is low in the public mind. Partly it is due the inordinate delay which is observed in the disposal of cases against high-profile politicians, and partly because the agencies do not publicize their good work; only get blamed for not doing enough.I have had a life-long immersion in this aspect of law enforcement, both as a trained criminologist with a postgraduate degree in the subject from the UK, and as a career police officer. I know the complex highways and byways of this interesting crime, but the purpose of this article is not to point fingers or allocate praise or blame. Officers posted in these agencies know where the shoe pinches, and conspiracies abound, and the complexities of their day to day work. My purpose in this writing is different.As the UN Secretary-General quoted above said, foreign investment does not go to countries which rank high on the international corruption index. Pakistan is at number 120 out of a total of 180 countries studied by the Transparency International during 2019. This unhappy state coupled with the highly unstable government that we have today does not augur well for the economy. To deal with the post-covid19 era, we need to improve our agricultural and industrial position. The local businessman invests in other countries like the UAE, Sri Lanka, and as far away as Vietnam. He earns windfall profits here and promptly transfers the non-tax paid wealth for profit abroad.Therefore we need to improve our position in the Transparency list. Irrespective of all the criticism of international standards bodies like Moody’s, S&P, the WB, the IMF and so on as being inimical to Pakistan, the fact is that we are a country with a heavily indebted and poor government. In this global village we have to swim in fairly infested waters. But for sure we need to break this downward economic spiral, and the best way is to improve our WCC figures of conviction in courts.The general public perception is that although Imran Khan is trying his very best to live up to his electoral promises of eradication of corruption in the nation, he is being thwarted by investigators, prosecutors, and the courts. Of these three organs of the law enforcement system, the most blame is being placed at the courts’ door. It is said that of all the scores of charge-sheets in court which are being vigorously followed by prosecutors, the courts tend to go soft on the accused for small lapses on the part of prosecutors, and technical legal glitches.This public perception may or may not be true, but it fits in very well with the criminological model of WCC enunciated above. Unless we clean up our act, let’s be prepared to go hat in hand to the IMF for a sixteenth bail-out in three years’ time. By then the dollar will be worth Rs 200, if present trends continue. Not a very pleasant scenario─ except of course for the economic mafias running WCC so efficiently for their personal benefit.The state of Pakistan is in peril. Accountability can be the oxygen to revive a faltering economy. Without financial vigour, defense, security and governance will each suffer. Minimization of WCC is an absolute imperative."
Arif Nizami,Khan under siege,2020-06-27,"Turning a new leaf?Finally, the prime minister deemed it fit to attend the ongoing National Assembly budget session. His ‘surprise’ appearance in the lower house was ostensibly to answer to the criticism of the opposition against his government.Perhaps Khan has turned a new leaf to give the parliament the importance it deserves or his sudden presence was dictated by a dint of circumstances. Admittedly, the past few weeks have not been good for the PTI (Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf) led coalition government.Ironically it is not the opposition that is posing any immediate problems for the ruling party. Coalition partners and dissention from within the party are of his immediate concern.BNP-M (Balochistan National Party–Mengal) left the coalition, complaining that none of the commitments made in writing were fulfilled despite verbal assurances. The other nationalist party from the province, JWP (Jamhoori Watan Party), led by Nawabzada Shahzain Bugti, has also put the government on notice, threatening to quit if its demands were not met within a week.As soon as he finished his harangue, the speaker oddly declared a break for Asr prayers to facilitate Khan’s timely exit. Clearly, based on his 22-month record, the prime minister neither wants to meet the opposition nor even hear them in the parliament.These nationalist parties from the geographically largest province of Pakistan pose no immediate threat to the government. But Balochistan can prove to be the casus belli for the government.With security agencies dominant in the province coupled with elements that do not pay even lip service to Pakistan, it is a complicated matrix. All this along with rumblings within the ruling party at this juncture cannot be dismissed off hand.A more serious challenge poses a clear and present danger for the PTI led government. Dissensions and groups within the party were common knowledge. But now these differences are being expressed openly, even in front of the prime minister.Khan’s star batsmen Asad Umer and Shah Mehmood Qureshi did not see eye to eye with his erstwhile close confidant and point-man Jahangir Tareen. This was common knowledge in the echelons of the party.But the enigmatic minister for science and technology Fawad Chaudhry spilled the beans in an impromptu interview with a foreign news entity. Resultantly the proverbial hit the fan in a subsequent cabinet meeting.Shah and Asad in unison protested against Fawad openly washing dirty linen in public and reportedly demanded his resignation but to no avail. The prime minister, with a razor thin majority in the National Assembly is in no position to alienate more of his party men.It is well known that prior to 2018 elections, Qureshi had never hid his ambition to become the chief minister of Punjab- the second most coveted post after the prime minister.That is why he contested elections for the provincial seat, only to be sorely disappointed when he lost to a relatively unknown person. He blamed Tareen for the debacle alleging privately that he sent Rs 10 crores to see to it that he lost the MPA seat.Similarly, when Khan took over as PM, Asad Umar, his blue-eyed boy as finance minister, was found to be clueless about how to handle the economy.Asad opposed entering another IMF (international monetary fund) programme. Soon, he was shown the door.Some powerful people, including Tareen, but more importantly Arif Naqvi, the discredited Dubai based equity fund top honcho, had the ears of the prime minister. He was continually shuttling between Dubai and Islamabad advising Khan on how to set up shop.It was primarily him who introduced Hafeez Sheikh (the present advisor on finance) to Khan and after his nod met the army chief general Qamar Javed Bajwa as well.Some MNA’s of the ruling party including Raja Riaz, Khawaja Shiraz Mehmood and Riaz Mehmood Marzari have openly chastised their own party.Raja Riaz, ringing the alarm bells, claimed– albeit without any evidence- that there were at least 22 PTI members of the parliament waiting in the wings to revolt. Another cabinet member aviation minister, Ghulam Sarwar Khan, echoed the sentiments of the parliamentarians, complaining that running of the government through unelected special assistants and advisors was anathema to a parliamentary system.In this context, Khan, deciding to attend the National Assembly- a rare occurrence- is no surprise. Ostensibly, he spoke at length to rebut criticism of the opposition against the government. But perhaps a more immediate reason was to reassure his MNAs that all is well.The PM, in his 75 minutes speech, termed by many as more of a lecture, highlighted the real or perceived achievements of the government in virtually every field.He claimed to be consistent in his handling of the coronavirus pandemic. The very day that cases and deaths in the country spiked to highest ever he reassured the nation that everything was under control thanks to the government’s consistent policies on how to contain the pandemic. Perhaps Khan badly needs a reality check here.While he is consistent in opposing a lockdown, the provincial and federal governments have followed a one step forward two steps backwards policy. Till the Covid-19 really spiked, lockdowns and other SOPs were neither seriously implemented nor followed.True, that lockdowns hurt economic activity and more so the poor and the dispossessed. But there is no other means to bring the rising pandemic’s graph down.In this sense, we have the worst of both worlds. People are dying at an alarmingly increasing number. And the economy is not picking up either. The WHO’s (World Health Organization) dire prophecy that there will be more than 200,000 corona virus cases by July has proved to be correct.The very day he made the faux pas in his speech of declaring the slain al Qaeda founder Osama Bin Laden a Shaheed (martyr) and that how much now the US president respects Pakistan, the US State Department lambasted Islamabad for allegedly harbouring terrorists on its soil.In its Annual Country Report on Terrorism for 2019 the US alleged that al Qaeda continued to operate from remote locations and safe havens in the region. Pakistan has officially expressed disappointment over the ‘self-contradictory’ report … so much for trust.Khan also claimed that the economy was improving before the pandemic set in with scant empirical evidence.As soon as he finished his harangue, the speaker oddly declared a break for Asr prayers to facilitate Khan’s timely exit. Clearly, based on his 22-month record, the prime minister neither wants to meet the opposition nor even hear them in the parliament.This kind of contempt for political opponents has few parallels. And it does not auger well for the healthy growth for democracy or democratic institutions.Khan perhaps relies too much on the powers that be for support. But the sort of backing he currently enjoys has proved to be ephemeral for most of his predecessors.Unless he governs effectively the present hybrid system is doomed."
Rabia Ahmed,Hijacked,2020-06-27,"Where did the clergy emerge among Muslims?Sahih Bukhari quotes the Prophet Muhammad (Peace Be Upon Him) as saying: ‘Make things easy for people, and do not make them difficult. Cheer people up and do not drive them away.’It is strange then, that most of those who have a voice in the matter of religion and how it pertains to life consider there is something wrong with it if religion is simplified and made easy to understand, or if it fails to make life difficult for it followers. They like to surround religion by mystique and an aura of exclusivity so that not only are they alone supposed to know what is right and what is not, but disagreeing with them is considered to be tantamount to blasphemy.Needless to say, there are many exceptions. Mercifully.There is of course the fact that knowledge is power. The Church in medieval times wielded huge power over its people, investing heavily in the perception that it was the gatekeeper to paradise. “Cross them in any way, shape or form, and you could yourself barred from the gates of paradise.” Nobody, neither a peasant nor a king, was able to pluck up courage, or sufficient power to oppose them.We need to learn more about what has been taught by the great Prophet of Islam (PBUH), to understand the religion better, for which we need discourse both verbal and in print. Yet this month in Sindh, the provincial assembly ‘unanimously adopted a resolution’ asking to make it mandatory to write “Khatim-un-nabiyyeen (last prophet)” along with the name of the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) ‘wherever the holy name is used, in official documents, newspapers, magazines, television, radio and wherever this holy name was used.’Clergy is discouraged in Islam because it tends to be this way. Few groups, after all, would not grab at such a ‘heaven sent’ opportunity for power if presented with it, and the clergy is not above it. And yet we have it, a clergy.And by this clergy, religion is presented as approving of acts analogous to putting pebbles in one’s shoe and self-flagellation, but the hardest to understand is the largely prevalent belief in unquestioning obedience without any attempt at understanding. Anyone who raises a voice of reason, anyone who believes in education, who attempts to teach along the principles of logic, is made to leave. The recent dismissals from educational institutions of great minds and rational individuals show this, and such cases are increasing. To deprive our young from exposure to such minds is a loss that will not be easily overridden.If anything has brought Pakistan to the brink of where it is, it is this – more than corruption, more than the failures of its political regimes.The fact is even more evident today in the way authorities appear powerless to implement their own rules. The way now, when distancing is so crucial in preventing the spread of covid-19, they were induced to resume congregational prayers. While some mosques are said to be adhering to SOPs, not all of them are, but they carry on. It is understandable that it is hard to impose a lockdown on commercial activity. But on prayer, when it can as well take place at home, what coercion is used unless it is that not to pray in a mosque is made out to be a sin?This of course appears to have taken place in Saudi Arabia as well where, following a statement saying that Haj would not take place this year. authorities appear to have changed tack and allowed a limited number of persons to perform the pilgrimage. It is a surprise to find that far from considering it wrong to put fellow humans at risk God apparently approves of it.And so we have witnessed a massive funeral for a respected religious scholar in Karachi, who died this month. The funeral was attended by many scholars, and thousands of the scholar’s students, in this time of covid-19.Allah says in the Holy Quran: “If anyone saves a single life, it is as if he has saved all of humanity.”If this injunction is followed to its logical conclusion, what of those who endanger many lives? Which taking part in that massive congregational event has certainly done.We need to learn more about what has been taught by the great Prophet of Islam (PBUH), to understand the religion better, for which we need discourse both verbal and in print. Yet this month in Sindh, the provincial assembly ‘unanimously adopted a resolution’ asking to make it mandatory to write “Khatim-un-nabiyyeen (last prophet)” along with the name of the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) ‘wherever the holy name is used, in official documents, newspapers, magazines, television, radio and wherever this holy name was used.’ This measure hampers discourse, not the other way around. There is also the fact that there are non-Muslims in this country whose beliefs are protected by the Constitution. Why should they say any such thing, in exactly the same way as a Muslim would not wish to speak of Jesus the son of God in a Christian country? In which case, are only Muslims permitted to speak of the Holy Prophet of Islam (PBUH) in Pakistan?It is not pleasant to find something so precious hijacked towards an unsavoury destination, but it has been. May God bring us back to the straight path. Who dares say that that is not expected in Islam?"
Raoof Hasan,The last rites of a crumbling system,2020-06-27,"Let the people respond to the call of their conscience“Without strong watchdog institutions, impunity becomes the very foundation upon which systems of corruption are built. And if impunity is not demolished, all efforts to bring an end to corruption are in vain.“Rigoberta MenchúImagine a country where a parliamentarian would demand on the floor of the House that the services of fake degree- and license-holder pilots should not be terminated; where a convict is allowed to travel abroad for medical treatment by merely signing a stamp paper of nondescript value; where the courts would repeatedly block the executive branch from performing its constitutional functions on one plea or the other, and where they routinely bail out alleged criminals to escape investigation of the corruption they are accused of; where judges are caught taking dictations over telephone; where fabrications, distortions and downright lies adorn the screens for hours every evening without a check by the regulatory body; where key state institutions have been reduced to a cacophony of skeletons making a mockery of their very existence; where, instead of coming forth with evidence to nullify the allegations, a sitting judge of the apex court would take recourse to petty technicalities to save his skin, with other judges of the bench acting as accomplices; or where the guilty roam free and the innocent are caged.Imagine a country where state interests are compromised in lieu of advancing personal, profit-based relations; where political parties are run as family fiefdoms committed to ensuring state capture by a few to eternity; where merit is forfeited to enable family members and associates to occupy key positions in the government; where democracy is only an apparel deceitfully used to hide cruel and despotic indulgences; where a sitting Prime Minister would help an alleged criminal escape the law in his official plane; where members of a former ruling family, duly declared absconders, unashamedly keep claiming their innocence; where the entire executive and judicial organs of the state are helpless before the marauding inroads that a property tycoon made by “putting wheels to his files” and getting away with plundering the holdings of the poor; where proven criminals step out of courts with beaming smiles and victory signs; where politicians operate as mafias and businesses as cartels; where bureaucrats are criminally politicised, judiciary has become a vehicle for providing relief to criminals and state institutions are used to perpetuate defilement of the constitution, rules and procedures.This decrepit system is sinking in the poisonous juices of its own making. It is now for the people to do the rest. They are the guardians of the state and they must make a move to transform it into a beneficent and welfare outfit where all are treated equally and where the exploitative instruments are driven out of the realm of governance.Imagine a country where the word of God is hostage in the hands of a fleet of obscurantist merchants of religion. And, worst of all, imagine a country where all this is done without remorse, without shame. That country is your country. That country is my country. That country, unfortunately, is Pakistan.It is not what Pakistan was conceived for becoming, or how its founding father would have imagined it would evolve into. But, that is what it has become, and a large number of people may yet be convinced that it is the right thing to have happened.It is as if we are numb to a million wrongs which afflict this country. It is as if we are blind to felonies, constantly driven by getting our needs fulfilled irrespective of the methods employed, or the instruments used. All which is self-interest-driven of the powerful is construed as fair. However, if the same is done by ordinary people, we are quick to become moral vigilante brigades and raise accusatory fingers in their direction. In other words, we accentuate the malady that doing a thing the wrong way is the exclusive right of the beneficiary elite.This is how deep the malaise has penetrated through layers and layers of the societal fabric with no hope in hell that it may, at some point in time, be reversible. In fact, with every passing day, this thought process is digging its tentacles deeper with the whole society standing on the sidelines watching in total and criminal silence. It is not a few odd people who have gone astray. By deliberately exercising our ‘right’ to stay silent, we have all become accomplices in this crime spree.Look at our institutions. Look at the judiciary and the way it is conducting itself, letting criminals simply walk away; or the NAB with virtually no convictions to show by way of performance; or the financial institutions failing miserably in expanding the taxpayers’ base and trying to extricate more from the ones who are already captive in their hands; or regulatory bodies facilitating non-conforming organisations in expanding their illicit networks. These are symptoms of an inherently dishonest and diseased system which works by criminalising all annals of governance.The state institutions have become impediments in the way of every possible effort to clean up things with the judiciary repeatedly obstructing the executive branch of the state by exercising its right of issuing intrusive injunctions, thus stalling all potential corrective measures. The adjudication in favour of the sugar mafia is only the latest example of this morbid penchant. Then there are a large number of hirelings employed by the previous governments who are still positioned in various institutions to continue the spree of malpractices of the past and block the path of reform in every possible way.The extent to which this system has been bludgeoned by the corrupt beneficiary elite, it no longer remains fit to run the country. It is a piece of stinking rubbish which does not even deserve a bin to be thrown into. It has lost its relevance in the context of the challenges which have emerged as a consequence of how it has been manipulated through decades for the sake of raising illicit empires on the carcasses of the poor and the impoverished communities.It has been distorted beyond recognition, beyond reform. Irrespective of a number of negative perceptions that prevail currently, some real and some fictional, this system has to be replaced by something more suited to the needs of the society which is intrinsically exploitative in nature, and where the rights of the weaker segments have to be ensured by the state beyond any prospect of exploitation by the gangs of crony beneficiary elite.This system is to be so designed that, and I quote Angel Gurria here, “integrity, transparency and the fight against corruption should be part of the culture. They have to be taught as fundamental values”. Alongside that, there should be strict enforcement mechanisms to implement conformance to these basic strictures and tenets. It is then that we would begin to erect the edifice of a fair, just and equitable state to ensure that the welfare, safety and security of its people, particularly its marginalised communities, is not left at the mercy and discretion of the crony beneficiary elite.This decrepit system is sinking in the poisonous juices of its own making. It is now for the people to do the rest. They are the guardians of the state and they must make a move to transform it into a beneficent and welfare outfit where all are treated equally and where the exploitative instruments are driven out of the realm of governance.Let us see the people rising to the call of their conscience. They should perform the last rites of this rotten system. Otherwise, it is them and the deluge which advances their way!"
Sirajuddin Aziz,Leadership amidst the pandemic,2020-06-27,"The PM seems badly advisedThe real test of leadership comes, and the character of a leader emerges, only when he or she faces challenges emanating from the unknown. In the last quarter of 2019, all of us looked forward 2020, filled with great hope and enthusiasm, to arrest the declining numbers in the economy, both locally and internationally. Until then it was focus on the regular challenges of economy, social upliftment, unemployment, inflation, etc. Nobody dreamt or foresaw in their wildest imagination that a virus called “Corona Virus-19”, would unleash itself, first as a mere jolt in the industrial city of Wuhan, in China’s Hubei province ; and later envelop the entire globe, with catastrophic implications for economies, politics and society.No country whatsoever was ready for a virus that would become a pandemic. Each country reacted according to its own level of firstly political maturity and secondly its economic. It took China, South Korea and Europe by surprise; then crossed the Atlantic, with cruel speed. China, and a handful of European countries resorted to serous lockdown, the former more seriously effective in its enforcement. Given China’s system of governance, in just 8-12 weeks, it not only confined the situation but also regained some of the economic losses. Chinese leaders take decision and implement them.The end of covid-19 is nowhere in sight. It may sneak into year 2021, as well. In its wake, the repercussions are manifold ranging from economy, social issues to health and mental health disorders. To deal with this requires now of our PM, to exhibit a different mettleNew Zealand, at the farthest end of the world, is the only country that has officially claimed and celebrated the elimination of covid-19. Rime Minister Jacinda Ardern, had already proven her mettle as a great leader, in handling last year’s terror attack; but as former US President Richard Nixon put it once, there are small events or nations and great leaders; Lee Kuan Yew was his case in point; could he be as successful as he was in Singapore, if he were leading Egypt? New Zealand is not Pakistan! We cannot berate Imran Khan on that count; similarly Pakistan is not Saudi Arabia, where the Monarch orders and people “have to” comply; so again Imran is seen pleading with the nation, “Please wear masks”; his threats of action are hollow, because the legal structure doesn’t support him or his threats.The acrid criticism of the Government by the opposition is not totally unjustified. The presence of so many Covid18 experts around the PM, aren’t serving his cause well. Many an occasion Imran actually appears a leader lost to the coterie of unsound advisors. The airy-fairy, idealistic, impractical and vague asinine suggestions, by these zealots, lead to mockery of the government or rather the leader.We have witnessed the PM’s antithetical statements, who first called covid19, “regular flu” and four weeks later, implored upon the nation to take it seriously, as it is potentially a deadly virus! No, wonder, we see the opposition in overdrive with acerbic comments upon the leadership. A political leader has gone to the extent of calling the PM a bundle of confused thinking.The Government and the corporate/business world would have to demonstrate great skills and an adroit posture towards managing critical sensitivities, which are or will be a natural fallout to this pandemic.Businesses, at this point are merely worried looking at the decline in their numbers; immune to their responsibility to assist the government. The pandemic’s impact on the economy is largely dependent on how business leadership responds to declining sales and lower profitability. A major fabric retailer has begun to shed already low and underpaid counter staff. If this is going to be the response of business to a few months of low profitability, then one can only woefully imagine the number of unemployed, at the end of this year. An additional problem for the government are the returning overseas Pakistanis, skilled and non-skilled; blue and white collar, who will be job seekers, too.Organizations (including the public sector, like PSM) contemplating layoffs will have to move with extreme caution laced with empathy. A lay-off is not just about an employee let go; it is an ethical and social dilemma, with far reaching effects. Families are emotionally gutted and that’s when their need for an anodyne becomes crucial. It can come only, where leadership takes into consideration besides the actual impact upon the family, of how to off-set the possible pain of being stigmatized as a “nonessential” person for the entity, and society at large. This can be very traumatic on large scale, lay-offs.Mass disappointments will emerge from any massive lay-offs. Although the government, through the central Bank, has come up with a refinance facility for payment of salaries by commercial organizations facing liquidity crunch; this scribe suspects (based on history),that like all other types of concessional financing, this too will be grossly abused. Funds availability at 3 percent, when the discount rate is 8 percent, is a good source to paying off higher-costing debts. A cash-rich organization shouldn’t be permitted to avail refinancing for payment of salaries.Political and business leaders will have to bring to the fore their ethical responsibility towards society and engage with workers during the toughest times of their lives. Clean leadership must be so, not by inertia, but performance. If nothing is done, there is no likelihood of anything going wrong. A leader has to take decisions, adopt a posture and appear to have the conviction of the validity of his thoughts and actions. Not oscillate from one extreme to another. While writing these lines, I am reminded of a plaque I had seen on the desk of a Chinese colleague in Hongkong; it read, “ If a cluttered desk reminds you of a cluttered mind, what does an empty desk signify?”.Vision not backed by a concrete action plan is an illusion. Leaders are dreamers, but certainly a nation ill affords a day-dreaming leadership. All citizens of this hapless nation share IK’s enthusiasm to build and govern Pakistan like the “city State of Medina ”. But today, even in Medina, they are not the same Medinites, who had excellence of character. We must accept and be realistic. How about beginning with say “Insaf”, first? Legal aid and framework should be made available at the lowest cost. And justice dispensed with speed. That is the closest first step, in a five=year tenure that IK can look to achieve, towards building city-of-Medina status for Pakistan.It is delusional to think honesty alone is the trait required for a leader. Honesty should be a given, but backed by solid knowledge, intellect and proficiency; or at the minimum the leader should have the profundity to sift through the advice received, to see if it is feasible, and above all makes sense; calling covid-19, flu and common colds, did not make sense!The economic anodyne to covid-19 is a charged leadership, willing to take bold decisions. The outbreak happened in February, and to the country’s commercial capital the PM decides to visit after almost five months the alacrity, needed for a leader to act, is grossly missing . Ambivalent leadership can never move forward. It has to be decisive. Not unsure.Individuals who can transcend being a Leader to becoming a statesman are those who can replace prejudice, biases and anger with magnanimity, empathy, kindness and grace. It was dis-appointing that Imran did not meet the Chief Executive of this Province Murad Ali Shah, who in comparison to other CMs has been proactive in the fight against covid19. Wisdom is the ability divinely gifted to those who have it in them to listen to other people; with unqualified attention, respect and humility. By doing so, no leader surrenders to others.The end of covid-19 is nowhere in sight. It may sneak into year 2021, as well. In its wake, the repercussions are manifold ranging from economy, social issues to health and mental health disorders. To deal with this requires now of our PM, to exhibit a different mettle. Reluctant leadership cannot be had ad infinitum. Proactive responses are needed. The PM must show decisive action. The half-baked PID sessions , by ill-prepared ministers and advisors, with even more inaccurate or conflicting numbers, isn’t much help to the PM’s cause."
Web Desk,Blacks are not the criminals,2020-06-27,"The looming race war threatens US dominanceTwo blacks from the graveyard; “I am George Floyd. I know you all know me well; some of you might have heard me crying ‘I cannot breathe, I cannot breathe’ when my neck was pressed under the knee of that cruel and brutal white man clad in police uniform.” “I am Rayshard Brooks, an African-American. Last Friday night, I was sleeping in my vehicle parked outside a shopping-mall when two policemen pulled me out of that and tried to torture me with a Taser. Just to save myself from the agonizing electric shocks of the Taser, I grabbed the Taser from their hands and ran away. One of them shot me from behind. I fell down and was taken to the hospital where I could not survive.”It seems being from among the Blacks has become a sin in Western society. Though the so-called civilized and highly educated Western society claims it has wiped off the curse of slavery from the world forever, but unfortunately Black people are still being treated as if they are the slaves. TWhite people do not try to understand that Black people are not ‘black’ by choice. God made them black. If it were in human control, not even a single person would have opted for the Black skin.Racial discrimination is no doubt a crime against humanity. For a peaceful and prosperous future of the world, we will have to discourage this evil at every level. And one more thing must also be kept in mind that racial discrimination is not only faced by the African-Americans; in India the Muslims, the Sikhs, the Christians and the low-caste Hindus commonly known as the Dalits are also the worst victims of racial discrimination.It is the result of this racial discrimination and disliking that today the most advanced country of the world, the USA, is facing the ever worst situation regarding law and order. Everywhere there is nothing but one slogan resonating; Black Lives Matter. The wave of agitation and protest seems crossing the American boundaries. On June 13, the New York Times reported that ‘thousands of people rallied against police brutality and racism in European cities, punctuating a week of protests across the continent, but far-right demonstrators also emerged in large groups for the first time — particularly in London — leading to sometimes violent confrontations that included attacks on police officers’.It is yet unclear whether the Black Lives Matter movement is against the police departments or against white people but whatever it is; one thing is alarming, that in some of the demonstrations against the George Floyd killing, the protesters in different European countries tried to destroy the statues linked with slavery.Certainly if the protest was against the police brutality, the protesters would never have targeted the statues linked with slavery. It seems very clear that a racial-war between the Black and the White people is in the offing. This war, if not controlled, may prove a serious threat to the US supremacy in the world. The designated ‘post’ of the World Superpower would be lying vacant very soon, waiting for the new ‘Occupant.’ Even a man in the street knows well that it would be none but China taking the charge of that ‘post’. Would that be the ‘end-state’ of all that hustle and bustle we all are observing in the USA nowadays? The actual issue is not to save the USA from disintegration or to keep away China from occupying the seat of the World superpower; the actual problem is; how to save the black people from racial discrimination.Discrimination against the black-people is not limited just to the American society; this type of racial discrimination has many times been reported in China too. The ABC News last April published a very detailed report on racial discrimination against the African-Americans in China. The report included detailed statement of an African-American, Andrew, who has been teaching the English language in the southern metropolis of Guangzhou since long. He said, talking to the ABC News, “As COVID-19 cases originating in China appeared to decrease, and cases that the government said ‘were brought into the country from abroad increased’ being foreign in China, and especially being black, meant feeling unwelcome in certain places. In the past couple of weeks, things have changed drastically.”Earlier to that a health alert was also issued by the Chinese authorities in the second week of the last April; this health alert was seriously objected by the US Consulate General Guangzhou, People’s Republic of China. According to the US Consulate General Guangzhou the alert directed the local police to keep an eye on bars and restaurants so that they might not serve clients who appear to be of African origin. Some of the African-Americans have launched a complaint that some businesses and hotels are refusing to do business with them. Apparently all these instructions and directions seem directly linked with the Covid-19 pandemic, but actually it seems that the African-Americans have to face same racial discrimination in China which they are allegedly facing in American society; say some experts on racial issues. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian categorically rejected all these allegations levied by the US Consulate General.He said, “At a moment when the international community urgently needs to work together to fight the pandemic, the US side is making unwarranted allegations in an attempt to sow discords and stoke troubles. This is neither moral nor responsible. We suggest that the US had better focus on domestic efforts to contain the spread of the virus. Attempts to use the pandemic to drive a wedge between China and Africa are bound to fail.”Racial discrimination is no doubt a crime against humanity. For a peaceful and prosperous future of the world, we will have to discourage this evil at every level. And one more thing must also be kept in mind that racial discrimination is not only faced by the African-Americans; in India the Muslims, the Sikhs, the Christians and the low-caste Hindus commonly known as the Dalits are also the worst victims of racial discrimination."
Qudssia Akhlaque,Recall: a disconcerting ‘exclusive’ with the MQM Supremo,2020-06-27,"The man who has blood on his hands“Never again!” I said to myself as I boarded the plane for Lahore. I breathed a deep sigh of relief as the plane took off from Karachi. The previous evening I had interviewed the MQM founder and its chief Altaf Hussain- the political Kingmaker of Pakistan’s biggest port city and economic hub. More than the interview, what got to me was the bizarre way it all unfolded.It was in January 1990, a couple of years before Altaf Hussain fled the country to live in self-imposed exile in London. The venue was his unassuming but heavily guarded Azizabad residence-cum-MQM headquarters.How this interview happened is another story. My mother was travelling to Karachi for an official meeting and I decided to tag along, hoping to find some good stories there. My sister suggested that I should aim for an exclusive interview with Altaf Hussain─ the most powerful and controversial political figure in Karachi at that time. The idea clicked and a key contact was tapped the minute I got the go-ahead from Mr Arif Nizami Sahab─ my first editor when I embarked on a career as a journalist in 1988.The interview was arranged at Nine Zero, the city’s most notorious address then─ Karachi’s equivalent of the infamous Freemason’s Hall of Lahore. The excitement of this ‘exclusive’ made me forget about all the horrific stories I had heard about Nine Zero and what happens inside.Court rules ‘absconding’ Altaf ordered Imran Farooq’s murder. The ruling was given by the Anti-Terrorism Court in Islamabad. I still remember the video clip of the MQM chief announcing from London the ‘shocking’ news about the murder most foul. The vivid image of Altaf Hussain sobbing inconsolably as he went through this dubious motion, perhaps for public consumption, came throughI still remember horror on the faces of friends in Karachi whom I met soon after the interview. They were scandalized to learn that I had ventured alone to interview the ‘monster’ of Karachi! Technically I was not alone. The newspaper photographer, who seemed even more eager, had accompanied me.On arrival at Azizabad the first thing that struck was the cult celebrity status that Altaf Hussain had acquired. The entire lane, dedicated to MQM, was decorated with posters and banners glorifying him as a messiah. Blaring sound of songs in his praise echoed with upbeat jingles of “Altaf hamara hai….” and all that jazz. We were ushered to the famous room with a flashing silver model of Minar-i-Pakistan where Altaf Hussain conferred with many a political heavyweight and coalition partner over the years. Multiple shades of unrecognizable people waited outside for Altaf ‘Bhai’ or ‘Pir Sahab’ as he was known among the MQM rank and file. When Altaf did not show up for almost 40 minutes I considered leaving (as I had to return to the hotel, check out and board a flight in three hours) but the photographer discouraged me. He insisted I change my flight as this rare opportunity of a one-on-one interview with Altaf Hussain must not be missed. So I decided to stay on and leave the next day. Just then Altaf entered the room flanked by his aides. He apologized at length for the delay caused by an important meeting with his new alliance partners in the then IJI.After a brief introduction and customary exchange of pleasantries I placed my small dicta-phone on the table in front. Just seconds later, a man walked in with a big tape recorder and placed it next to my mini recorder. As I engaged with Altaf in a warm-up chat our photographer took a few quick pictures. Just then Altaf’s private photographer also appeared on the scene with a bigger, more sophisticated camera. As if a signal that all is now also on MQM’s record, just in case the need arises to set the record straight! The underlying message of this ‘Tom and Jerry’ kind of enactment was: don’t mess with us! I found it both amusing and disconcerting. Was this MQM’s style of marking journalists or a mere pressure tactic?The interview was preceded by a lavish spread of sweet and savory indulgences. Already finding it hard to stomach all that I had witnessed I avoided the temptation.During the interview Altaf spoke as if programmed exclusively for a high-pitched voice. As he thundered, I wondered if he was in a trance or imagining himself to be in a jalsagah. When asked pointed questions about the MQM turning into a fascist outfit with torture cells etc., he was visibly offended. “You must be a PPP supporter,” he said sardonically already feeling the heat of the ‘Operation Clean-up’ in Karachi under the PPP government. Next he asked me which area in Lahore I resided, ostensibly to make his point of the elite angrezi bolnay wali (English-speaking) class backing Benazir Bhutto. As he tried to digress by throwing in more personal questions, I politely reminded him that I was the interviewer not him!On the view that he had changed many stances and was not the same person as when he started, he argued that the massive support he had was a testimony to his not having changed as a person. “I am the same Altaf Hussain as I was in 1978 when I started. The only difference is that today I don’t have a Honda-50 motorcycIe anymore,” he asserted.Towards close of the interview he said to me “we need people like you in our party.” “Not in this life dude!” I thought to myself, as I smiled it off in the same vein he had said it.The interview went on for much longer than I had anticipated. Altaf with his unstoppable oratory could have made it go on forever! Assuming that I would have attended at least one of his rallies, he was thoroughly disappointed to learn that I had not. So as a parting gift I was given a videotape of some MQM public campaign featuring him. He suggested that I watch it before I did the write-up on his interview. He graciously came outside to see me off. He went up right up to my car, short of opening the door, or may be he did!It did not end there. When I returned to the hotel past midnight after meeting a friend and interviewing TV artiste Badar Khalil, reception handed me a slip saying: “Phone call from the MQM Chief’s residence.” I was not amused. I took the key, went up to my room and just as I opened the door the phone was ringing. I picked up the phone and at the other end was Altaf’s press secretary, asking me how the interview went and what I would write. I told him he would find out once it got published. When he complained about journalists often misquoting “Altaf bhai” I told him I did not subscribe to that kind of journalism. Also, I reminded him of the mega recorder they had parked next to my mini one. I wanted to leave the city right away! Thank God there were no mobile phones at that time for me to be stalked.All this came back to me last week when I read a front page news report titled: Court rules ‘absconding’ Altaf ordered Imran Farooq’s murder. The ruling was given by the Anti-Terrorism Court in Islamabad. Once a key MQM leader Dr Imran Farooq who had reportedly disassociated himself from the party chief was killed in London almost a decade ago. I still remember the video clip of the MQM chief announcing from London the ‘shocking’ news about the murder most foul. The vivid image of Altaf Hussain sobbing inconsolably as he went through this dubious motion, perhaps for public consumption, came through. During that overkill of a solo ‘soap opera’ Altaf was almost falling off his chair as he faked the unbearable pain of his former confidante Dr. Farooq’s brutal killing. Even then many could see through the orchestrated drama of his hollow hysteria.God save us from murderous and treacherous hypocrites!"
M A Niazi,Expert opinions,2020-06-26,"Choosing between lives and livelihoodsAT PENPOINTOne of the unforeseen consequences of the covid-19 pandemic may well have been the breaking of the link between experts and political leaders which has been so essential to the Enlightenment project. This disdain for expert opinion has been visible in the refusal of government leaders to follow the recommendations of scientists in measures to deal with the pandemic.These leaders, who include both the USA’s Donald Trump and Pakistan’s own Imran Khan, are apparently caught in a crossfire between two sets of experts; doctors saying that social distancing measures must be followed to preserve life, and economists who feel that the recommended measures will lead to economic collapse, and the loss of livelihoods.Experts have come in many shapes throughout human history, but never before have they been experts, not until the 18th century Enlightenment. Before, they had been priests, or mullahs, or gurus, because the happening of this world were only explicable by the intervention of the Divine. Another factor was that much knowledge was secular, but taught in religious curricula. Even now, hikmat is taught in madrassas, because students may need to use it to earn a living as a tabib, while they await a position as a prayer leader. Thus, while they may have been good at treating illness, building fortresses or selling cloth, they would primarily be men of God.Experts have always been useful in courts, but it was only after the Enlightenment that they became crucial to rulers, initially as a counterweight to priests, and then in their own right. Just as men of the cloth became a priesthood, so did experts become a separate caste, and scientists have become the priests of modernity, used automatically to being heard with respect, and obeyed, by the rulers.The scientific method is not permanent or intrinsically infallible, but it must be replaced by something more than a desire to be one-up on the experts for the first time in a lifetime of being mocked for being intellectually inferior to them. Unless Trump or Imran succeed in explaining the world better than the experts, using as method better than theirs, no one will accept what they are sayingIn the modern democratic age, rulers are not experts (Plato’s ideal of philosopher-kings was never realized). They are elected from among the ruled. Those who favour some other form of rule, usually favour some form of expertise, of allowing the chief executive a free choice of ministers, as in the presidential system. Supporters of the parliamentary system promote the rule of generalists, who are as comfortable at the Textiles Ministry as at the Livestock Department.Though the present government is of parliamentary provenance, the large number of PM’s Special Assistants and Advisers, including a number who head ministries, indicates Prime Minister Imran Khan’s liking for experts. As a matter of fact, the SAPM on Health is a public-health expert, being an old WHO hand.Opposed to the medical experts are the economists, who provide a big picture that coincides with what people are generally experiencing: the economy tanking. Economists have the figures and are the experts saying what everyone feels but cannot express for fear of contradicting the medical experts.Therefore, there is the sight of political leaders exhibiting an expertise they do not really possess. Thus US President Donald Trump has promoted hydroxychloroquine as a cure and for covid-18, even though the evidence does not exist. That piece of medicine can only be matched by Imran Khan’s diagnosis of Nawaz Sharif’s condition based on the glimpse afforded of the back of his head in a photograph.Coincidentally, neither has much of a medical background, though Imran can claim that his father’s brother and his mother’s brother-in-law (the Surgeon General, Lt Gen W.A. Burki) were both doctors. Both have a more formal training in economics, though neither can rightfully claim any expertise. Trump attended the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School, earning a degree in economics. Imran read PPE at Oxford─ not Physical Protective Equipment, but Philosophy, Politics and Economics. Neither have either ever had any pretensions of being an economist. Trump had gone into the family real estate business, which might have had some use for his academic background, but apart from joining the Packer rebellion in the 1970s, Imran was never deeply involved in negotiating players’ pays, which was the only application of economics that arose during his many years in cricket. Raising money for the Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital may have involved economic decision-making, but this was more about Imran working his Indian showbiz contacts than deep economic thinking.Still, the distrust they are showing for experts reflects that their message is acceptable to their bases. It is something of a paradox that Imran’s base includes a number of experts, including a goodly proportion of doctors. However, the base of both men consists of those who suspect experts strongly. Trump’s support consists of Americans brought up to believe that ‘they are as good as anybody’ and nobody can claim to know anything they don’t.This is actually anti-Enlightenment, for it violates the basis of expertise, which is the scientific method. The expert is merely someone who has applied the scientific method in his area for enough time to be trusted. Thus, it can be seen, the expert deals in facts. Pakistanis experience the results of expertise recently, during the solar eclipse, which took place at the time experts (in this case astronomers) predicted, and unfolded as they said it would. These experts endorsed and propagated what another set of experts said, ophthalmologists who warned that observing the eclipse with the naked eye would lead to the eyes being damaged, and even to blindness. A third group of experts disclosed what optional prayers were to be offered, and how. The first two confirmed each other, and left the third alone. All other experts remained silent within their own respective fields of expertise.One of the salient features of the scientific method is that it deals with facts, with specific occurrences, not with imaginings or theory. People are dying. Both Imran and Trump would like that they do not die, that the method of stopping this did not involve economic collapse, but scientists are not working for the wish fulfillment of politicians, but to observe natural phenomena, and at most to solve problems. Further, there is a choice offered between saving lives but still having the economy tank, or losing lives and still have the economy go belly-up. The choice, it seems, is between people dying or not, with the economy tanking in either case.Or so the experts say. Both Imran and Trump distrust experts. In Pakistan, corruption is not possible without experts, usually engineers, signing off on deals disadvantageous to the government. Trump, having been in the real estate business, would have also known a lot of engineers. Imran would be anti-expert automatically, because they were active partners in the corruption that brought him to power.The problem with Trump or Imran is that they bring no replacing idea. The prohibition on Galileo by the Church at least had behind it the sanction of Christianity. It only disappeared because, in Galileo’s famous words, “[the earth] still moves”. The scientific method is not permanent or intrinsically infallible, but it must be replaced by something more than a desire to be one-up on the experts for the first time in a lifetime of being mocked for being intellectually inferior to them. Unless Trump or Imran succeed in explaining the world better than the experts, using as method better than theirs, no one will accept what they are saying."
Web Desk,Better knowledge for better care,2020-06-26,"Today is the International Day against drug abuse and illicit traffickingBy: Aisha YousufEvery year 26 June is observed as the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking as an expression of the purpose of strengthening action and cooperation to achieve the goal of an international society free of drug abuse. Supported each year by individuals, communities, and various organizations all over the world, this global observance aims to raise awareness of the major problem that illicit drugs represent to our society.The theme for the 2020, “Better Knowledge for Better Care”, emphasizes the need to improve the understanding of the world drug problem and better knowledge will promote greater international cooperation for countering its impact on health, power and security.Drug addiction has become the serious problem around the world. It has been adopted as a lifestyle in both rich and poor countries. The use of drugs and alcohol not only brings negative impact on moral values but it also damage nation economy as well. Drugs roduce short periods of feelings of well being and pleasure, but after that it always drags the user towards permanent psychological and personal abnormalities.In Pakistan, the covid-19 pandemic has compounded critical economic challenges, as well as issues related to governance and internal security. The outbreak has also brought about a series of changes related to organized crime as illicit trafficking, and there is a need for greater attention in monitoring these trends.In Pakistan more than 800,000 people between the age of 15 and 64 are addicted to the use of heroin on a regular basis, as indicated by United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and the most common drug of choice is cannabis. There are two types of drugs that are very common and easily accessible; cannabis and heroin. America is considered as a country where the maximum volume of heroin is consumed but estimates show that around 44 tons of heroin is consumed every year in Pakistan. This ratio is two to three times higher than the USA.In Pakistan, the total number of drug addicts as per a UN report is 7.6 million, 78 percent of whom are male, while the remaining 22 percent are female. The number of these addicts is increasing at the rate of 40,000 per year, making Pakistan one of the most drug-affected countries in the world. This is the reason why Pakistan is considered as a home for the use of heroin and is known as one of the biggest market for heroin smugglers and dealers. What is most disturbing is the fact that most of these heroin addicts are under the age of 24. The reports and figures presented by the UN about the drug abusers to government entities are in fact a third of the actual number of addicted people.The question is, why do people start doing drugs? People start doing drugs because of socio-psychological factors; economical issues, lack of interest in education, high stress and anxiety and due to peer pressure. People start from smoking tobacco and ruin their life by jumping on hard drugs. If children who grow up in a family where smoking is common, then there is a high chance that children will start smoking tobacco very early, will try hard drugs and will get involved in wrong practices. There are also some other factors, including; the feeling of alienation, a life trauma, and the lacking of family support and relations problems. Biologically, drugs affect neurotransmitters and release some chemicals that give pleasure and a sense of wellbeing for a short period of time. After repeated use, the time period of feeling pleasure gradually decreases and the pleasure itself diminishes. The brain and body become dependent on drug. When drug addicts use drugs, they don’t do so for pleasure, they do so to feel normal. Consequences always been very painful and difficult to get away from, including withdrawal symptoms, paranoid and psychotic thoughts, stress, anxiety, depression, restlessness, psychological problems and cardiovascular diseases.The implications of the covid-19 pandemic still have to unfold fully, but it is clear that it has already presented many new challenges for Pakistan. The apparent increase in drug trafficking and other threats is undermining the state’s ability to focus efforts on citizens’ health and safety while simultaneously trying to stabilize Pakistan’s economy.In April, the Anti-Narcotics Force (ANF) and the Pakistan Navy confiscated significant amounts of heroin, opium, hashish, crystal meth and a quantity of morphine as a result of illicit trafficking. These large drug busts, along with many smaller confiscations and arrests in other parts of the country, point to an increased supply of narcotics in Pakistan. This could be the result of efforts to meet heightened demand during the pandemic or opportunism on the part of drug producers and traffickers. These groups may be looking to exploit decreased law-enforcement capacity for drug control, as attention is diverted towards containing COVID-19.However, the hazard of drugs can be battled. Education is the primary fight. Everyone should be educated about the harm and effects of drugs so that they may know the consequences of its use and can avoid it. Government should take strict steps against the drug dealers and should emower the law by increasing the police manower. The implications of the covid-19 pandemic still have to unfold fully, but it is clear that it has already presented many new challenges for Pakistan. The apparent increase in drug trafficking and other threats is undermining the state’s ability to focus efforts on citizens’ health and safety while simultaneously trying to stabilize Pakistan’s economy."
Sultan M Hali,The fox is set to guard the chickens,2020-06-26,"India has too many problems to be effective on the UNSCMexico, India, Ireland and Norway were elected as non-permanent members of the United Nations Security Council last week. Mexico and India were elected unopposed. The new members will start their two-year term on the 15-member council on 1stJanuary 2021. The Security Council is the only UN body that can make legally binding decisions like imposing sanctions and authorizing the use of force. It has five permanent veto-wielding members – the USA, Britain, France, China and Russia.The surprise element is that despite being a bully on the block and posing a threat to all its neighbours, India has been entrusted with this responsibility.The Muslims of India and other minorities are being trampled under the jackboot of Indian state terrorism. Draconian laws have been imposed to deny Muslims the citizenship of India. Abrogating Articles 370 and 35A of its own Constitution, India deprived Kashmir of its autonomy, slapped a lockdown which lasted more than six months, only for the state to be locked down again due to COVID-19 and killing, maiming and raping Kashmiri women.India is the only country in this entire universe, whose leaders justify the rape of Muslim women. Despite this gross misdemeanor, if India is appointed as a non-permanent member of the UNSC, then God preserve the rest of the world since the Indian appointment is tantamount to appointing the fox to guard the chickens.Currently India is embroiled in conflicts with China and Nepal, because it chose to construct an illegal highway in Chinese and Nepali territory. With neighbouring Pakistan, India is in constant violation of the ceasefire and is killing innocent civilians on the Pakistani side of the Line of Control (LoC) with incessant bombardment.Neighbouring Bangladesh and Myanmar are upset because of India’s unjust citizenship laws. Nepal, Bhutan, Maldives and Sri Lanka are being brutalized through constant interference in their internal affairs. Afghanistan continues to suffer under Indian intransigence.Simultaneously, Indian mishandling of the pandemic COVID-19 has resulted in a massive death toll and the collapse of its already archaic health system. Concurrently, the Indian economy is badly shattered and is facing the peril of bankruptcy. Under these nightmarish scenarios, the proponents of the extremist ideology of Hindutva are indulging in hate crimes as well as endangering world peace by instigating border disputes with China and Pakistan only to divert the attention of the masses from its own mis-governance. In the current milieu, India being elected to the coveted seat of United Nations Security Council, albeit for a period of two years, spells trouble for the rest of the worldThe Indian grouse with China and Pakistan is because of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s mega-project, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The majority of the world’s countries, including Europe have joined the BRI with zeal but India, Japan, Australia and the USA remain outside its fold because of their blinkered vision. India does not wish to see the BRI flourish despite the fact that it can bring prosperity to it too. India’s main area of concern is the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), which is the flagship project of the BRI.Pakistan’s deep sea port of Gwadar, one end of CPEC, located in Balochistan, is causing nightmares to India. Its administration is being handled by China. Thirty-five percent of the world’s oil supply flows from the Gulf to the rest of the world, in the sea lanes adjacent to Gwadar. India fears that if China were to block the sea lanes of communication near Gwadar, it would be choked. Northern India is already threatened because of Indian adventurism in the Ladakh region, which resulted in a sound beating of its troops at the hands of the Chinese military. The possible presence of Chinese naval ships at Gwadar will squeeze India from both ends and is adding to its sense of insecurity.Attempts have been made by India in the past to deploy senior operatives of its infamous spy agency RAW in Balochistan. In March 2016, Commander Kulbhushan Sudhir Jadhav, a serving Indian Navy Officer and senior RAW agent, was arrested by Pakistan’s security agencies. In a confession before a magistrate, Commander Jadhav admitted to hatching plots to recruit Baloch Sub-nationals, train them in sabotage and guerilla warfare, and then arm and launch them to wreak havoc in Balochistan. Their aim was to instill insurgency so that the Chinese engineers and workers on CPEC projects were traumatized and abandoned their tasks.Commander Jadhav was tried in a Field General Court Martial since he was on trhe active list of the Indian Navy and was awarded the death sentence. He has not been sent to the gallows yet since the International Court of Justice has stayed his death sentence.India was not deterred by the incarceration and admission of guilt by Commander Jadhav. It continues to launch secret agents who indulge in sedition, sabotage and terror activities to destabilize Pakistan.Confessions of a retired Indian Army major have exposed Indian involvement in exporting state terrorism to Balochistan and other areas of Pakistan to create chaos and mayhem.19 June was observed as the “International Day for Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict” but it made no dent in the Indian detestable actions. The deplorable situation of Muslim women being targeted by Indian military and paramilitary forces in Indian Occupied Kashmir (IOK) continues to draw the ire of human rights activists but Indian generals and politicians, blinded by the hate-mongering Hindutva ideology, prescribe the use of rape as a weapon to suppress the Muslims.India is also deeply entrenched in Afghanistan. The Taliban as well as the US administration see no place for India in Afghanistan, but its proximity to Pakistan and especially the areas of Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) present a lucrative target. Indian spy agency RAW has created a nexus with the Afghan secret service the NDS, as well as the abhorrent Islamic State or Daesh, to launch terror attacks in Balochistan and KP to make Pakistan reel under acts of violence and terrorism.India prides itself to be close to the Arab world but in the near past, the Arab media has picked up the cudgel on behalf of Indian Muslims to expose the Indian government’s anti-Muslim stance. Numerous articles have appeared in Arab dailies while the social media is abuzz with tweets warning the Indian government to desist from Islamophobia. Interestingly, members of the Royal Family in Oman and UAE have taken to sending messages via the social media that if India does not refrain from sending hate messages, especially through its Diaspora working in the Middle East, they will face the danger of being deported.Simultaneously, Indian mishandling of the pandemic COVID-19 has resulted in a massive death toll and the collapse of its already archaic health system. Concurrently, the Indian economy is badly shattered and is facing the peril of bankruptcy. Under these nightmarish scenarios, the proponents of the extremist ideology of Hindutva are indulging in hate crimes as well as endangering world peace by instigating border disputes with China and Pakistan only to divert the attention of the masses from its own mis-governance. In the current milieu, India being elected to the coveted seat of United Nations Security Council, albeit for a period of two years, spells trouble for the rest of the world."
Dr Farid A Malik,Misleading and Misdirecting the Nation,2020-06-25,"India should be exposed for its misdeedsIn the recent post budget debate Khawaja Muhammad Asif, son of Khawaja Muhammad Safdar of Sialkot, stated that Pakistan had not played its role in blocking the permenant membership of India in the United Nations Security Council( UNSC ). It was a misleading statement by the former foreign minister and currently the acting leader of opposition, as the position is temporary for a period of two years. The response of the sitting foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, was equally absurd as he thought it was not a big deal.Both need to be reprimanded, Khawaja for misleading the nation and Qureshi for misdirecting it. The National Assembly has become an absurd debating club where people come to hurl abuses and defend the misdeeds of their leaders instead of legislating for the common good of the people. While the former foreign minister should tender an unconditional apology for his misleading statement and be debarred for speaking on the floor for at least one year, the sitting foreign minister should be issued a show cause notice for misdirection and showing calleusness in the performance of his duties.It is typical of the PML(N) and its media cell to mislead the nation. Instead of coming clean they cause delays in legal proceedings. Rana Sanaullah in the narcotics case against him has sought three adjourments. Judge Arshad Malik is another misdemenour. The case of corruption against Nawaz Sharif was being heard in the court of Accountability Court Judge Muhammad Bashir. His smart lawyers first worked on Judge Arshad and then moved an application to get the case transferred to his court. They then tried to blackmail the Judge by highlighting his personal misadventures to get a favourable judgement. When the Judge did not oblige they went public after him. Bail in common law is the right of the accused, it does not mean vindication. Even Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto was given bail in the murder case against him, he was then detained under martial law throughout his trial followed by execution. Almost the entire PML(N) leadership is out on bail while the cases against them are being unnecessarily delayed by them. They have not been able to come clean in any of the corruption charges filed against them.While peaceful settlement is the way forward, at times flexing of muscles is also required. We must side with our Iron Brothers in containing the hegemony of the upstart Brahmins who rule over a badly divided nation who have laid illegal and unjustifiable claims over all the surrounding countries. It is time to cut India to size for lasting peace in the region.Like the Sharifs of Lahore, the Khawajas of Sialkot are a product of the establishment. Khawaja Safdar, the father of Khawaja Asif, was first elected MA in 1962 under Ayub Khan’s manipulated system called Basic Democracy. When the dictatorial regime was packed up in March 1969 Khawaja Srs innings also came to an end. In the first free and fair elections in 1970 he lost to a PPP nominee. It seemed that the era of establishment politics had come to an end. But evil dies hard. When Zia, the third usurper, took over he formed his nominated Majlis-e-Shoora whose Chairmanship was bestowed upon Khawaja Safdar. In this capacity he even officiated as the President sitting in for the villian of democracy and destroyer of civilian institutions. The baton was then handed over to Khawaja Asif in 1991. Today he is considered to be a stalwart of PML(N) and close ally of Nawaz Sharif. In the 2013 elections his was one of the four constitutencies opened for scrutiny by the Election Commission of Pakistan on the complaint of his opponent. While the other three were unseated he was saved through a technicality of non-appearance by the complainant while he was out of the country on a business trip. In 2018 he had a narrow victory over PTI candidate Usman Dar.The sitting foreign minister is no different. Like the Sharifs of Lahore, Khawajas of Sialkot, Dastagirs of Gujranwala, the Qureshis of Multan (not to be confused with Nawab Sadiq Qureshi of PPP ) are chip of the same block. From the PML(N) to the PPP and now the PTI it is a journey of unmatched political ambition instead of service to the people. Politics of Sothern Punjab now dominates the area. There is a tussle for Chief Ministership ( CM ) that is where the focus lies for most politicians hailing from the South. The Punjab Assembly is the right forum for the division of the province into one or more units. The state of Bahawalpur also seeks restoration. As this will be the first major division of a province in the country it needs an independent full time committee to work out the details, part timers holding additional responsibilities cannot do justice to this cause. The federal government t has to work through the provincial legislature, not the other way around as is being currently pushed.Pakistan should have resisted tooth and nail the membership of India the bully of the region that has border disputes with all of its neighbours that include: Pakistan, China, Nepal, Burma, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Tibet, Kashmir. It interferes in Afghanistan internal affairs even the Island of Maldives has not been spared. Entering the UNSC, the highest body of the United Nations, is like a bull in the China shop. A country that does not honour any of its international commitments including UNSC resolutions should not be allowed this vantage position even for a day. Kashmir continues to bleed with 377777worst human rights abuses. Major blame lies with Khawaja Asif himself as the membership process was started during the regime of PMML(N). The sitting foreign minister should have highlighted this fact while fighting to block the entry of India. the chief tormentor of the area.These so-called electables, who dominate all poltical parties, have hijacked the entire democratic order. Agencies have files on most of them. Their misdeeds are all recorded. There are only two real political outfits in the country, namely PPP and PTI, as they were conceived by leaders who had an ideological vision together with a solid record of struggle. Being a part of the establishment the role of the bureaucracy has been very dismal. While the PM is fighting on several fronts he has very little support from the administrative machinery as change does not suit them. Parliament is the mother of democracy, every word and move is heard, recorded and counted there. Members who mislead and misdirect must be taken to task to make the institution relevant to the masses.Human Rights Minister Shireen Mazari has already shown her displeasure, the issue should be discussed in the house and those responsible reprimanded. It is time to corner, not appease, the bully. While peaceful settlement is the way forward, at times flexing of muscles is also required. We must side with our Iron Brothers in containing the hegemony of the upstart Brahmins who rule over a badly divided nation who have laid illegal and unjustifiable claims over all the surrounding countries. It is time to cut India to size for lasting peace in the region."
Shakaib Qureshi,Mr Justice Faez Isa versus the State,2020-06-25,"Making a case stand up in courtCases of a delicate nature before Pakistan’s apex court can only be written about very carefully. The facts in Mr Justice Faez Isa’s case were simple but needed to be uncovered. The question was whether the evidence, gathered by the Assets Recovery Unit, would stand-up in court.To be fair, in Pakistan, what stands or does not stand in a court has always been difficult to comprehend. However a bit of history may help. The term “stand in a court of law” stems from 13thcentury French impotence laws. At the time, the Catholic Church held the view, that marriage was only undertaken to bear children. Consequently, these laws permitted wives to seek divorce on the grounds of a husband’s impotence. Contesting such a wifely allegation was no mean feat. The husbanmd had to physically demonstrate his masculine prowess in open court to disprove it. From all contemporary accounts, making one’s masculine evidence stand-up before dour judges and taunting crowds took some doing. From these courts came the important legal question that must be asked beforehand: will it stand-up in court?It was the law minister’s job to ask this question in such a delicate matter. In hindsight his confidence that the evidence would stand in court should have reminded us less of Messrs: Sharifuddin Pirzada or A.K.Brohi and more of the Marquis de Langey. Messrs Pirzada and Brohi are geniuses of our legal history. They actually persuaded Supreme Court Judges to rule against themselves by weakening the very constitution that empowered them. Farogh Nasim is no less. Recently, while acting for the State during his first resignation period, he persuaded the Lahore High Court to declare a commission constituted by the Supreme Court of Pakistan as illegal. But how does the Marquis de Langey figure in such august legal company?In 1653 the Marquis de Langey, a dashing French aristocrat, was married to Mademoiselle Marie de St Simon de Courtemer. In 1657, after four years of marital lif,e she filed an allegation of impotence against the Marquis de Langey. The case was heard in the High Court of Paris. The Marquis de Langey publicly challenged his wife’s allegations. As a first step an intimate medical examination was conducted by the court. It concluded that Madam Langey was, at least physically, very much a married woman. Madam Langey responded that the condition was not due to the Marquis’s masculine prowess but due to his unnatural and one assumes non-procreative sexual advances.The Prime Minister and the Law Minister are squarely responsible for the half-baked reference which was no less malicious than Nawaz Sharif’s frontal assault on the same court. The poor Prime Minister obviously cannot hold anyone to account for this disaster. He will probably treat it as another step towards One-PakistanThe Marquis could have at that time closed the matter but much, like our law minister he chose to challenge instead. Perhaps like the Minister’s desire to please his real client, the Marquis’s malice was so strong and his self-righteousness so intense that he forced a trial in open court without considering the outcome. The trial took place and as expected the Marquis was required to make the evidence of his masculinity stand-up publicly in a court of law. On the fateful day, the Marquis strutted around elegantly dressed. In court itself, a room with a bed, partitions and mid-wives was prepared for the Marquis and Madam Langey. I will spare the gory details but after a lot of grunting and swearing it was clear that the evidence did not stand-up.Both the Prime Minister and the Law Minister would do well to note that the Marquis sired seven children later from another marriage but this did little to clear his name. His name remains a byword for flaccidity in history.The Prime Minister and the Law Minister are squarely responsible for the half-baked reference which was no less malicious than Nawaz Sharif’s frontal assault on the same court. The poor Prime Minister obviously cannot hold anyone to account for this disaster. He will probably treat it as another step towards One-Pakistan. Previously, the Police roped-in mostly poor people, NAB now does the same to a different class and the law minister can extend One-Pakistan to the judiciary.Courts have so far sat back and allowed draconian laws to trample human rights but chickens have a bad habit of coming home to roost. Mr Justice Isa was lucky, this time, he was allowed to disprove a malicious allegation within a few days. Most ordinary Pakistanis are not so lucky. Sleep easy, Mr Justice Isa, Pakistanis will continue to be harassed and deprived of their liberty in criminal or assets beyond means cases. During the course of trying to disprove allegations, most ordinary people will spend months or years in prison. Physically and financially broken they might be released after a self-righteous lecture from a judge. No one will ever be held accountable for not asking beforehand: will this stand in a Court of law?"
Web Desk,What is the India-China conflict in Ladakh?,2020-06-25,"Why it matters to PakistanBy: Wali Imran KhalilThe India-China conflict over strategic heights in the Galwan Valley of disputed Ladakh, didn’t become an all-out war just because both countries have worked too hard to get where they are.So, what is this fuss about the Daulat Beg Oldi army camp to Karakorum pass road, high up in North West of India, in disputed territory, and the supposed Galwan Valley incursion, by China?China was repeatedly badgered by Pakistan about Kashmir and by Nepal about Lipulekh pass and India’s hegemonic motives in the North, but China looked the other way. India repeatedly scuffled with Chinese troops over the 3880 Kilometers Line of Actual Control, to secure passes and heights, but China let it slide. India landed widebodied aircraft on its Daulat Beg Oldi post near the Karakorum Pass into Pakistani Gilgit-Baltistan and subsequently to the CPEC road, and China shifted a little. Finally, Mr. Modi’s crazy lieutenant, Amit Shah, uttering “(Gilgit Baltistan) POK is included when I talk of J&K” after he revoked constitutional protection of Kashmir’s independence, was the last straw.Chinese troops moved in overnight into a valley and commanding heights that lead to the confluence of Shyok and Galwan rivers, from where the new road runs up to the Karakorum Pass. The Indians were so immersed in their self-aggrandizements that they were blindsided by the Chinese manoeuvre. Indian and Chinese generals agreed to deescalate, but then Indian troops moved up another commanding height and were beaten back by Chinese, some falling into the ravine below; 40 Indian soldiers died. The Chinese had outmanoeuvred the Indians!Daulat Beg Oldi, an Indian base and runway on occupied land, was stolen from a 16th century nobleman and traveller. This pass overlooks the Tibet-Xinjiang road and is also close to Skardu CPEC link. It and can be easily jumped across by India troops using the recently extended runway and increased troop numbers.The Ladakh conflictwas thus about protecting Chinese investments and their breakout CPEC route to the world. Now if India sends troops over the Karakorum Pass, using their Daulat Beg Oldi base, which India has threatened to, into Skardu to interdict the CPEC route, China will cut off their supply line.Pakistan needs to learn to balance world power interests. Jumping into one camp is never a great idea. 70 years in the USA’s lap didn’t get us Kashmir. T could Try being nonaligned for a change and focus on national institution and society’ building. Pakistan needs to learn to balance world power interests. Jumping into one camp is never a great idea. 70 years in the USA’s lap didn’t get us Kashmir. T could Try being nonaligned for a change and focus on national institution and society’ buildingThe Chinese Foreign Office also made it clear the entire Galwan Valley is China’s. So they would probably not be moving back.In the melee, several Indian and supposedly Chines soldiers were killed and Pakistanis are ecstatic that at least some country in the world had the courage to call a jackass a jackass.India and China have decided to withdraw troops from their aggressive posture around the DBO-Karakorum interdiction point, but I doubt Chinese will come down from the commanding heights.Mr. Modi has already said Chinese troops never came into Indian territory! Now that’s what real national power is.China has indicated clearly throughout its party mouthpiece that India’s servile attitude towards the USA’s initiative to encircle China have led to this mess. India’s recent joining the Quad alliance with Australia, and Japan was not viewed well in China. The USA properly rewarded India by having it elected unopposed a non-permanent UNSC member of UNSC and also to the WHO executive body of World Health Organization. India immediately called for initiation of inquiry into Covid-19s origin inside China. Modi’s recklessness in the covid19 situation and bluster against Pakistani Kashmir, was too much for Chinese nationalists.The USA is cheering on Indian racist BJP leaders to be tough on China. India has its own axe to grind against Muslim extremism by conducting extrajudicial killings in Kashmir and including terrorism in the Quad’s agenda.Indian BJP leaders, being racist themselves, cannot break out of the white-man worship syndrome. When the colonial British were egging on Hindu Marhattas against the Nizam of Hyderabad or sending Ranjit Singh to fight their battles in Pashtun land and Kashmir, the same people slavishly obliged. This mindset cannot understand peaceful coexistence, free from injustice and interference.The USA will sell more arms to India. The Indian economy of $3 trillion, already tottering from poor social spending, and heavily dependent on US largesse on imports to western countries and immigration, will slide further in the race to the top. China is already a $14 trillion economy.India needs to forget about interdicting CPEC for at least a decade till it is a $10-trillion economy, but is hamstrung in this by cultural stupidity in the India elite. Common sense says you cannot become the village chief if you steal land from your estranged neighbor.India has placed all its eggs in USA’s basket thinking the white knight will save them from barbarians. Has USA ever made Mexico its ally?India might still try to create a diversion from its ignominious defeat by attacking Pakistan, their favorite whipping boy. They might take the vulnerable land till the Neelum valley. That would bring them a step closer to CPEC, and they could curry Western favor as a result.A receding superpower like the USA will open up its war chest to support this prop of theirs, but unfortunately, Indian reputation in the dogfight with Pakistan and the Ladakh capitulation, has suffered immense damage. As always, India has shown itself a beehive of worker bees, good for amassing honey but not for fighting a more powerful bee colony.What will China do now?China will try to get back to business as usual as early as possible, because it is realistic. China will definitely think twice before voting against Pakistani militant proxies directed towards India, like Masood Azhar. India still funds and trains militants in Baluchistan to disrupt CPEC projects; so China might ask it to stop. China will link up Nepal through Arunachal Pradesh to CPEC in Pakistan, so that it has alternate source of imports in case India blockades them like in 2015. China will breathe down India’s neck in Siliguri Corridor till the time pragmatic politicians arrive in India that can balance US and Chinese interests.The BJP will attack Muslims to keep their extremist votebank intact and still curry favour from Western leaders, by imitating western values.The US-India nuclear deal has opened up opportunities for India it could never have imagined, and it aims to max out this credit card.India is feeling the heat from its northern border with countries that were being bullied to submission like Nepal, Bangladesh and even Bhutan jumping ship to China’s camp. That says a lot about who the new sheriff in town is.What China is telling India is that both the sheriffs can enjoy the fruits of their status together, but India right now is having none of that. Mr. Modi wants to be the only sheriff in town with borrowed guns, shoes and bullets and a tattered gunbelt.Pakistan’s fear of Indian incursion through Karakorum pass and Skardu is over for the time being, but the threat to Azad Jammu and Kashmir especially Muzaffarabad up to Neelum River remains. Pakistan needs to develop vital interests for China in Indian Occupied Jammu and Kashmir, for the Giant Dragon to even notice the killings there.Pakistan gets more time to get its house in order, strengthen institutions, especially the economy, and build a working relation with India, till the time India inevitably rises like Hanuman again. When that day comes, and it eventually will, China would not be interested to stop them.India still has a road safe a secure to reach Siachen glacier, so that’s no good for Pakistan.Pakistan gets nothing tangible from this conflict except the satisfaction of India getting a good whopping. That’s enough for many, but nothing tangible.Pakistan needs to learn from China the immense benefits of being a larger country economic and land wise. National power should be the catchword, if this country is to survive the political storms coming its way coursing an independent path.Pakistan needs to convince the USA that their interests would be better served if Pakistan is made the pivot state instead of India. An increase land mass, by forming dominions with Kashmir and maybe Afghanistan would give USA the influence that they so crave in this part of the world.Pakistan should learn from China and take back the heights it lost in 1971, near Turtuk-Thoise close to Galwan valley, that overlook Indian roads to Siachen Glacier, also illegally occupied by India.Pakistan needs to learn to balance world power interests. Jumping into one camp is never a great idea. 70 years in the USA’s lap didn’t get us Kashmir. T could Try being nonaligned for a change and focus on national institution and society’ building.The writer retired as a wing commander from the PAF"
Hassan Ayub,Foolish optimism or wise pessimism?,2020-06-23,"Is Pakistan next?It’s hard to recall the last time any of us were able to spend so much time at home with our families and engage in discussions pertaining to any global occurrence the way we have been doing during the “Great Lockdown”.While it has been getting increasingly evident over the course of these past few years, it is now becoming painfully clear that the generational gap between our parents and our youth is getting wider and wider every passing day. What seems like idiocy to one appears as wisdom to the other.My cognizance of this generational divide has increased manifold during the pandemic. I’m sure, like me, many of the readers would have come across sensible people reaching unfounded conclusions on how, for instance, the blessings of the holy month of Ramadan will somehow bring about an end to COVID’s reign of terror. Or examine this nonsensical theory doing the rounds on social media about how the USA is suffering among the worst hit countries as divine punishment for the atrocities it has committed in the past.While it is absolutely essential to stay positive amidst this pandemic, there is a very bold line between thinking rationally and constructing conspiracy theories willy-nilly. “Faith” and “blind faith” are two distinct thought processes, and the former should not be transformed into the latter solely due to the lack of research and evidence. We as a nation have made it our prerogative to justify our inadequate amount of information and background knowledge by devising bizarre events and their associated causes.It is very important for us to fight two wars here, one against poverty and the other against the coronavirus, but sometimes opening up two fronts without adequate resources might result in losing both, something we as a nation cannot affordMany are wondering as to how Pakistan has been fairly successful in containing COVID-19, whereas the West (specifically the USA) has been engulfed in a health crisis like never before. Ironically, while a country whose economic might, infrastructure and health resources are exponentially more than ours has been hit so badly by the virus; for some unknown reason we are still doing pretty fine. Various theories have emerged to somehow explain why this is so. Some suggest that warmer temperatures are probably playing a role and hence the virus is not as contagious in our part of the world. Scientists have however rejected the argument as completely baseless and without any credible evidence. Another reason might be our demography compared to that of the USA, where there the number of people above 30 is significantly higher while our populations median age is 22.5 years. Scientists at GILEAD labs argue that the widespread immunization of infants with Tuberculosis vaccine Bacillus Calmette Guerin (BCG) in Pakistan has played a role resulting in the virus being less fatal. Maybe our lifestyle choices have just made our immune systems stronger and more adaptable to any kind of virus, including the coronavirus.We can always compare a few very basic numbers and statistics which can help us see which direction Pakistan is sailing in.Data from John Hopkins University suggests that so far the USA has conducted 24,937,877 tests. On average, taking 50 states into account, the USA is conducting 100,000 tests each day. Of the tests conducted, 2,163,290 people have tested positive, 117,717 people have died and the remaining are still being treated.The USA has adopted a very rigorous testing strategy after the White House’s initial downplaying of the virus. There were about 5,000 deaths each day in the early stages of the outbreak but since the enactment of the lockdown and social distancing measures they have dwindled to about 2000 each day. The curve has also been somewhat flattened where the daily count of new cases has decreased from about 40,000 per day to 20,000. The mortality rate of the virus in the USA comes out to be about 5.5 percent. The USA has conducted the highest number of tests worldwide but its per capita testing is still behind that of the UK and Italy, owing to its much larger population. For every million people the US has conducted 28,482 tests. Dr. Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious disease expert and the Center for Drug and disease control (CDC) have been urging the federal government to further increase the testing capacity and adopt a “testing, tracing and quarantining strategy” to contain the virus. This is the only way their states can ease lockdowns and prevent the country from falling into a financial recession similar to the one of 2007 or the Great depression.That was the world’s worst affected country. Pakistan’s tally is very different, not because we aren’t affected but because we don’t even know what has hit us till this ticking time bomb explodes. The official government statistics report that there are currently 160,118 positive cases in the country. Of these cases, 3,093 deaths have been reported and 59,215 people have recovered. Everything looks and seems well with the aforementioned data. This is just like buying a piece of land with a very good per square foot rate but without actually knowing the total area of the land being bought. Given the above numbers, Pakistan’s mortality rate is just 1.93 percent, which is nothing worse than the common flu. The only thing we need to realize is that these numbers do not even come close to reflecting the ground reality. The total number of tests conducted stand at 982,012 and Pakistan has just recently increased the testing capacity to about 30,000 tests each day. 982,012 tests are basically what the USA is capable of carrying out in simply just days. So if a lack of diagnosed cases due to insufficient testing keeps our numbers low and gives us this false sense of assurance that we are doing fine, then there is a dire need to restructure our evaluation process and reasoning. There have been a lot of deaths recently which have been attributed to causes other than covid-19. While it might be true that those deaths did not occur due to the coronavirus, we also do not know if they actually did. In such a scenario, we only have one option and that is to increase testing to accurately delineate the situation.The reported data is not only deflated in Pakistan, but also in a lot of countries. Public health officials have been urging the authorities to keep the transmission of information as transparent as possible. Only this can enable the public to act as needed, otherwise the virus will be taken lightly, especially in a country like Pakistan where there is an extremely high illiteracy rate. According to WHO, Pakistan spends about 2.8 percent of its GDP on health, has 1 doctor for every 1034 people and 0.8 hospital beds per 1000 citizens. These statistics are reflective of an already fragile healthcare system and this system can easily break under the pressure of an exorbitant number of corona patients. Pakistan must be very careful as it begins to ease its lockdown, open public transport and shopping malls. It is very important for us to fight two wars here, one against poverty and the other against the coronavirus, but sometimes opening up two fronts without adequate resources might result in losing both, something we as a nation cannot afford."
Zeeshan Khan,Mental health and depression,2020-06-23,"Suicides must be acknowledged as a problemOnce Confucius said that life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated. Then, the complications keep on multiplying and in the time of crises, humans are tested. But, human psychology includes multifaceted human behaviour and other processes. The very struggle with life starts from childhood and the Japanese concept of Ikigai, by which is meant a reason for being or in simple words the purpose of life, is tried to find for the expedition of self-discovery.But, all processes rotate around the axes of cognition. When man earns his livelihood, and his needs are fulfilled. He gets into a state of stability on the material side if he overpowers his greed. However, most people due to socio-economic pressures, and others because of their emotional injuries, get into the constant state of unhappiness and hopelessness. In other words, mental disorders occur. These ailments happen in all regions and cultures of the world, the most prevalent being depression and anxiety. It is estimated that nearly one in ten people is affected by these two disorders on the planet (676 million cases). The depression prevalence among women is substantially higher than among men. At its worst, depression can lead to suicide. An estimated 804, 000 suicides occurred worldwide in 2012, an annual global suicide rate of 11.4 per 100 000 population, and for every suicide there are many more suicide attempts.In some countries, increased levels of awareness about and treatment of depression and alcohol use disorders are aided. High rates of stigma surround depression and suicide, which impedes help-seeking by individuals and the development of services by health authorities. Many facilities in low- and middle-income countries do not have the capacity to provide basic treatment for depression, as health workers are not trained in mental health issues and medicines are not available.To reduce the incidence of suicide in young people, school-based interventions, as recommended by WHO’s Suicide Prevention Strategies should be initiated. These include crisis management, self-esteem enhancement, development of social skills and healthy decision makingSDG Target 3.5 aims to promote mental health and well-being. Moderate and severe depression are included within the Mental Health Action Plan 2013–2020 target to increase service coverage for people with severe mental disorders by 20 percent by 2020. Member States have committed to developing and providing comprehensive, integrated and responsive mental health and social services in community-based settings. Suicide prevention is also an integral component of the Action Plan, with the target of reducing the rate of suicide in countries by 10 percent by 2020.According to a study of JPMA(Journal Of Pakistan Medical Association), a few years ago, incidences of suicide appear to have increased in Pakistan and suicide has become a major public health problem. From available evidence it appears that most suicides occur in young people (single men and married women) under the age of 30 years. Hanging, use of insecticides and firearms are the most common methods and interpersonal relationship problems and domestic issues as the most common reasons for suicide. Mental illness is rarely mentioned. Lack of resources, poorly established primary and mental health services and weak political processes make suicide prevention a formidable challenge in Pakistan. Public and mental health professionals need to work with government and non-governmental organizations to take up this challenge.Suicide is a condemned act in Islam. Traditionally, suicide numbers were low but in recent years, they have shown an increase and suicide has become a major public health problem in Pakistan.There are no official statistics on suicide from Pakistan. Suicide deaths are not included in the national annual mortality statistics. National rates are neither known nor reported to the World Health Organization (WHO).Information on suicide in Pakistan comes from a number of sources including newspapers, reports of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), voluntary and human rights organizations and police departments of different cities. Further information is available from hospital based studies, for example on acute intentional poisoning, deliberate-self harm and autopsies carried out by Forensic Medicine departments.Mental health must be part and parcel of every country’s education policy. Almost 34 percent of Pakistani population suffer from common mental disorders, and depression is implicated in more than 90 ercent of suicides. This needs to be addressed at the community level. Ideally, mental health and suicide prevention programmes should be integrated within the primary health care (PHC) system. Unfortunately, in Pakistan public funded PHC system is largely ineffective. Training emergency room personnel can contribute significantly to suicide prevention.In Pakistan, the three most common methods are hanging, ingestion of insecticides and firearms. While hanging is difficult to control, restricting availability of latter two can potentially prevent 50 percent of suicides. Public education campaigns to promote safe storage of insecticides are needed.Crisis intervention centres and suicide prevention telephone hotlines play an important role in helping suicidal people, as shown in neighbouring Sri Lanka. There is a need to establish such services in Pakistan.To reduce the incidence of suicide in young people, school-based interventions, as recommended by WHO’s Suicide Prevention Strategies should be initiated. These include crisis management, self-esteem enhancement, development of social skills and healthy decision making.Government must implement social policies that are just, equitable and fair that address the problems of the common man. There is need for increased spending on mental health as well as proper utilization of available resources.A mandatory reporting of suicide mortality statistics to the WHO would improve data collection and surveillance on suicide.For national responses to be effective, a comprehensive multi-sectoral suicide prevention strategy is needed, including; firstly, improving coverage of mental health services and access to treatment for mental and substance use disorders, early identification and effective management of suicidal risk, as well as follow-up and community support of those who attempted suicide; secondly, reducing harmful use of alcohol and internet; thirdly, restricting access to the most common means, including pesticides, firearms and certain medications; fourthly, responsible media reporting and social media and crisis helplines; fifthly, public awareness programmes to raise awareness and reduce stigma; and lastly, targeted prevention strategies for vulnerable groups."
Zaeem Mumtaz Bhatti,Justice Qazi Faez Isa stand vindicated,2020-06-23,"The short order left no room for mistakeThe short order of the Supreme Court announced today, quashing presidential reference against Justice Qazi Faez Isa is all too brief and cryptic. That is why it is being interpreted variously, with each interpretation is at odds with the other. Some are saying the Court really showed its guts and held aloft the banner of independence of the judiciary, while others feel the Cort tried to run with the hare and hunt with the hounds, and has virtually thrown the ball back to the Supreme Judicial Council (SJC) in a new garb. Still, others are maintaining that a sword of Damocles has been kept hanging over Mr Justice Isa and his family. It is time to comprehend its true import.In paragraph 1 of its order, the Court allowed Mr Justice Isa’s petition. However, certain riders were added, which has caused confusion among legal circles and the government apologists. To evaluate what was granted by the Court, the prayers by Mr Justice Isa. At the heart of his petition lie four reliefs in the shape of declarations: first, that the reference was actuated by malice in fact and in law, undermining the independence of the judiciary; second, contrary to the perception the government sought to create, he has neither contravened any provisions of the Income Tax Ordinance, 2001, nor evaded any tax liability and as such the allegation made against him regarding his improper conduct or misconduct was unfounded and groundless. As for the non-disclosure of the properties of his spouse and children, the judge was not bound to make any such declaration under Section 116 of the ITO, particularly when no property was purchased with his funds, nor were they dependent upon him. Third, the Asset Recovery Unit (ARU), which was instrumental in collecting the evidence against the judge was itself non-existent in the eyes of law, for it was working with the blessing of the Prime Minister, but no law of the land gave it or its activities a legal cover. Also, the information collected surreptitiously by it, and FIA and other government agencies flew in the face of guarantees in Articles 4 and 14 of the Constitution regarding the inviolability of the person, property, dignity, and privacy.Now, when the aforementioned prayers are examined in the light of the short order, it becomes obvious that none were denied or disallowed. The conclusion is irresistible that the reference was quashed on the basis that the action directed against Mr Justice Isa was found unwarranted, stemming from mala fides. Put another way, there was no material or basis or tangible grounds available to the government to file a reference. The reference has been regarded as a direct assault upon the independence of the judiciary, that is secured by the Constitution. Obviously, the proceedings launched against one judge were to browbeat other independent judges into submission. In a word, it is the collective reaction of one institution against other institutions, who attempted in vain to make inroads into the judiciary. At the same time, the government was conveyed that the judiciary wouldn’t be party to any witch-hunt in the name of accountability. And if conducted by an institution without sanction of law, the judiciary wouldn’t give its blessing to such a blatant attempt by the government of the day. The ARU’s future appears to be hanging in the balance until the release of the detailed order. In the interim, the ARU is to proceed cautiously and its Chairman, Mirza Shahzad Akbar, is to function on his own risk and at his own peril. Otherwise, he might find himself landed into endless controversies and dragged into courts mercilessly and unceasingly.The second attack on the judiciary by the executive, the first being on Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhary, has been repulsed by the judiciary with the unrelenting struggle waged by a fearlessly independent judge, Mr Justice Isa, duly supported by the lawyers’ community through its representative bodies. United we stand, divided we fall. Independence of the judiciary won. So did rule of law and supremacy of the constitutionCircles sympathetic to the government are trying to make out that the government was given leeway and allowed to retreat to fight another day. This is clearly a misconstruction being put on the short order. Time and again, the judges were at pains to observe during the hearing of the petition that they were not above the law, and they had never claimed they are untouchables or holy cows. They stressed they wished to be treated like other citizens, enjoying the same protection of the law.If the short order is examined closely, it emerges that the proceedings against Mr Justice Isa have been quashed and that no inquiry is to be made against his person at any forum. As for the Court’s direction to the FBR, suffice to say, such an inquiry is to be confined to Mr Justice Qazi’s spouse and children. In other words, his stance that he is not concerned with the properties of his wife and children has been accepted and he is not to account for those properties. Had Mrs. Qazi not volunteered to offer herself for being inquired by the tax authorities, the Court would have stopped short of giving any such direction. At the same time, the judges appear to address the concerns of those insinuating they were out to save the skin of one of their brethren. After all, when Mrs. Qazi is in possession of ample material to back up her claims, no one is to be apprehensive. Even otherwise, when nothing would be found against Mr Justice Isa, he would be secured from future onslaughts of the executive.Such a course has not been suggested to offend the sensibilities of Mr Justice Isa, as is being presumed by mischief mongers. Had the Court itself passed any judgment on the tax matters of Mrs. Qazi, a mealy-mouthed, Advocate of the Federal government, Farogh Naseem, would have cast aspersions, arguing that the tax authorities have been bypassed or their powers circumscribed.As regards the time frame set by the Court for concluding the inquiry to be conducted by the FBR, it was essential given that, left to its own devices, the CBR would have taken decades to conclude it, thereby looming large as a threat over Mr Justice Isa’s family, deriving vicarious pleasure.It is being wrongly assumed that the SJC has been directed to proceed against Mr Justice Qazi by exercising its suo motu powers. In point of fact, the Court has simply restated the SJC’s position in the constitutional scheme. A perusal of Article 209 bears this out. Nothing is to be read into the short order to construe it as if the proceedings now quashed against Justice Qazi Faez would stand revived and resuscitated after 90 days. The fate of the reference, material contained in it, and the basis thereof has been sealed for good.If some of the judges spoke out their minds in their detailed judgment, it would definitely create ripples thereafter. It is highly likely that in its wake, the pressure would be mounted on the government to step down, labelling it anti-judiciary and fascist, which threw caution to the winds, trying to clip the wings of the independent judiciary and trampling upon fundamental rights.The willingness of Mrs Qazi to appear before the FBR and the Court’s direction to this effect aside, it is doubtful whether she, as a non-resident in a particular year, was liable to file any income tax return at all and if not, how could she be burdened with any income tax with regard to properties lying outside Pakistan. Again, the crucial question is whether the amendments brought in income tax law in 2018 or 2019 could be applied to her retrospectively. As of today, the law is that tax liability cannot be imposed upon a person retroactively.No matter how things pan out for Mr Justice Isa’s family, the government has fallen flat for now and is likely to find itself stuck in a blind alley in the future. The freedom-loving citizens are to be assured that the spectre of accountability looming large over Mr Justice Isa and his family is illusory. The government has been left to chase shadows. In Punjabi, “Hakmoot tai oodey hawarion nooh truck di batti pichhay la dita gia hai“. (The government and its disciples have been made to chase a trucklight.)The second attack on the judiciary by the executive, the first being on Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhary, has been repulsed by the judiciary with the unrelenting struggle waged by a fearlessly independent judge, Mr Justice Isa, duly supported by the lawyers’ community through its representative bodies. United we stand, divided we fall. Independence of the judiciary won. So did rule of law and supremacy of the constitution."
Hasan Aftab Saeed,"RIP compassion, RIP empathy, RIP reason",2020-06-23,"The piety brigade strikes againOne would not usually expect three letters to trigger such a furore. Last week’s commotion on the social media was started by nothing more than a benign RIP wished to Sushant Singh Rajput. The resulting explosion of bigotry was troubling even if it wasn’t exactly eye-opening (one can have eye-opening experiences only so many times). It was not permitted to pray for Singh as he had died a non-Muslim, the piety brigade vehemently announced.Just as way too many atheists believe that anybody religious must have some screws loose, way too many religious folks think that anybody who is an atheist (or belongs to the ‘wrong’ religion) must be insincere. There is a marked dearth of goodwill and spirit of extending the benefit of doubt on either side; but the latter directly concerns our subject today. From the Muslim point of view, there can be at least two reasons for somebody not being a Muslim: either he did not get the message properly; or he received it all right but rejected it due to arrogance, convenience or some such reason. This is certainly not to say that Singh necessarily belonged to the first category. But the point is that there is no way to know that he belonged to the second category either. While there is no denying the existence of insincerity among many unbelievers, without a prophet in our midst how can one say about a given individual that he is insincere? And not knowing one way or the other, what is wrong with assuming the best on the part of others, especially when the Quran warns against erring in the opposite direction? [49:12]The Quranic verse pressed into service to support the position that one is not permitted to pray for the non-Muslim after his death, and which became a twitter trend, was this: “It is not fitting for the Prophet, and those who believe, to pray for the forgiveness of idolaters even though they may be their near of kin after it has been made clear to them that they are people of hell fire.” [9:113] First of all, one would be hard pressed to find a Sikh who will admit to being an idolater. But let us not dwell on that detail. The subject of Chapter 9 of the Quran is punishment for those deniers of truth about whom God had declared that they had received and understood the message. The Prophet (PBUH) of God was among the believers so there was no room for any doubt. The verse has nothing to do with the non-Muslims of today. Whenever a verse of the Quran is quoted after tearing it loose from its context, the conclusions that are drawn are always flawed. This tendency to quote out of context is a very slippery slope. People have notoriously used other verses of the same chapter to justify all sorts of killings in the name of Islam with devastating consequences.While there is no denying the existence of insincerity among many unbelievers, without a prophet in our midst how can one say about a given individual that he is insincere? And not knowing one way or the other, what is wrong with assuming the best on the part of others, especially when the Quran warns against erring in the opposite direction? [49:12]Which leads us to a broader point; there are many non-Muslims around but now that the prophethood has ended once and for all, as far as we are concerned nobody is a kaafir anymore – not that we can know of, at any rate. The latter would be someone who deliberately rejects the truth knowing that it is the truth – something no man can be sure of about another man.What the Quran really says about salvation is quite the opposite of what the piety brigade would have us believe. “Those who believe and those who are Jews, and Christians, and Sabaeans – all who believe in Allah and the Last Day and do good, surely their reward is with their Lord, and there shall be no fear upon them nor shall they grieve.” [2:62]. (The same thought is expressed again with a minor variation of words in 5:69.) Add the numerous places where the Quran makes it clear that apparent association with a camp or giving lip service to a cause mean nothing as far as one’s fate in the next world is concerned, and there can be no room for any doubt on the matter. God Judges men based on their attitudes and actions, not on what label they wore or which club they were members of.But Singh committed suicide (a forbidden act), the righteous folks reminded us for good measure. Will it be too much to ask that at least some things are not seen through the prism of piety and impiety? If one could only imagine how disturbed somebody must be even to contemplate ending his own life, maybe one would think twice before judging him.According to the Quran, every man is going to find with his Lord his just reward (or punishment); nobody will be wronged. So, our saying RIP is hardly going to change anybody’s fate. But to think good of others and wishing them well, whether they are living or dead, Muslim or otherwise, is for our own good. Hatred is a strange animal. Sure, it occasionally makes a man do things to harm those whom he hates. But what it does in every case without fail is to consume the life of the hater. Moreover, it is a manifestation of something already seriously wrong in his life. A man given to such emotions needs to be more worried about what is missing in his own life. Admittedly, the last time I checked there was no law against being bitter; so, it is fine if you decide to spend your life that way. Just don’t pretend the Quran told you so.I used to scoff at any suggestion that Islam was in some sort of danger. Not anymore, for I have revised my position in this regard. There is no doubt in my mind now that Islam needs to be saved from self-righteous Muslims."
Shah Nawaz Mohal,Insane madness of lunacy,2020-06-23,"And why we need to go beyond labels, taboos and stereotypesWhere is the thin blue line between sanity and insanity, between madness and creativity, between finding wonder in everyday life and being boredom-struck amidst wonderland? When do we cross the final frontier from ‘all-that-is’ to ‘all-we-wanted-to-be’? Where is the door from where we go beyond the reality of mundane to the serenity of beyond? Why do we lose our minds to an extent that others have to rush in and do their best to tame us and bring us back to the Land of The Normal? How some madmen perish amidst chaotic noise, surrounded by million fragments of never-ending visuals, and an array of sensations that tax their minds so much that to silent it or make sense of it is the sole aim. Some members of our species choose insanity as an escape. A Hobson’s choice where to take it or leave it has become more a question of contemplation rather than a serious query which could be answered no.Who are they, these settlers of fringes, these obsession-filled, impossibly imaginative, gibberish-uttering lads and lassies? Always on the edges, never home, never at peace, always departing, never arriving. What makes them, them? Is it Genetics, environment, trauma, betrayal or tiresome realities? Or is it a craving for escape or an allure for the ‘other side’? It could be one or all of these or some other push that nudged them ahead and beyond.All these questions are eternal. Philosophers, theorists, religious figures, social scientists, poets and writers have been grappling with these queries for as long as we humans have been condemned to the servitude of words.I have written many times in these pages about sanity, creativity, psychotherapy and madness. Madness has many hues and nuances. Solitude removes all the distractions and smoke screens allowing us to peep inside our minds. Creativity is observing the familiar and seeing something novel, every time. Although beasts of different nature, all three, play a very pivotal role in the lives of individuals. It takes a looney, a madman, a fringe-dweller to make progress in the fields of arts, literature and sciences.What is madness? Whatever idea of madness you have is probably tainted by how you approach it. A poet and psychologist will differ hugely the way they perceive it. Why is solitude necessary to achieve a deeper, nuanced understanding of ourselves? Ruminate about it. What urges us to express ourselves through words, deeds and acts of creative expression? Will it ever be satiated? The answer is no. All these questions are eternal. Philosophers, theorists, religious figures, social scientists, poets and writers have been grappling with these queries for as long as we humans have been condemned to the servitude of words.Those among us who deviate from the norm, statistical norm of normalcy as determined by rational, logical behavior, are madmen and women. Those who lead solitary, secluded lives away from the hustle bustle of chaotic daily life and seek refuge in their minds- for a painter it could be a canvass, for a writer seclusion means pages and pens, for those whose mind loves to wander, it is sights and sounds of nature- are the renegades who refuse to play by the rules. These maladjusted blokes and dames are single handedly responsible for making our species leap ahead and discover new frontiers.The great mass of our species have always been busy in making ends meet. The pressing physical needs for food, shelter and security has kept the majority of us on our toes. The demands of the body have consumed billions of us. The perils of thought and mind cast their gloomy pall on few. Why? Well, let us think more, let us think hard, and let us delve deep.Humans are creatures who thrive on looking, craving and finding distractions. Our ancients found it in rituals of their elders, sights and sounds of nature, poetry of wandering bards, myths and tales of ancients, gruesome spectacles of misery, tricks and illusions of magicians and closing of their eyes and ears.Alas, in our age we have mastered the art of concealing our madness by antidepressants, crowding out solitude by memes and notifications, channeling our creativity to appease the base taste, getting high on the number of likes, views and shares. The dawn of information technology held promise of an era where ideas will float freely, the world will come closer and a more dynamic, more democratic, more open society will come into being.All these hopes and dreams dashed. Social Media has made us all into narcissists sans beauty, sans talent, sans thought, sans anything. What’s the cure? Have social media accounts on every platform. Go there, post your thing, and log out. Don’t consume it like junkies. If you have content, throw it there. The consumers will consume. Want content, get it in one place. Email, Whatsapp, Messenger, any platform, until it is one, would suffice.The insane madness of lunacy is one notch away from getting any of us. Feel depressed, talk. Feel suicidal, talk. Feel like having a cigarette, share. Feel like losing mind, knock on a door. Feel like crying, cry. Feel like losing it all, don’t. Lucky we are for we have countless distractions. Distract yourself. Distract yourself with books. Distract yourself in the company of strangers. Distract yourself with Netflix. Distract yourself with books. Distract yourself with calling loved ones. Distract yourself with music. Distract yourself with poetry. Distract yourself with philosophy. Distract yourself with comics.Distract yourself brethren and ladies. Or else the insane madness of lunacy will rip you apart from the seams."
Web Desk,In search of justice,2020-06-23,"Justice delayed is justice deniedBy: Salman MunirIn 2017, I was back in a High Court after some 35 years, with an exception. This time I was in the Sindh High Court, Karachi appearing as a witness in a wrongful dismissal case instead of the Lahore High Court, Lahore where I appeared as a practicing lawyer until 1982. Nothing much had changed during these 35 long years. The Cause List (list of cases for the day) was still a mile long and the title of the case and the name of the lawyer were called out aloud by a peon at the entrance of the Courtroom. Just like 1982. And perhaps like 1882. The whole morning was taken up by the first two cases because of the lengthy arguments of the lawyers concerned. Needless to say, I returned to Islamabad without the case coming up for hearing.Recently I was reading a book entitled “Out of Order” written by Sandra Day O’Connor, a retired Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. This book contains stories from the history of the Supreme Court and mentions how the Supreme Court has reduced the time allocation for lawyers to argue orally to just 30 minutes. This was not always the case. In the beginning, lawyers had unlimited time for oral argument. The Court realized that quantity was not quality. So in 1848, the Court limited arguments to two hours for each side. This was then reduced to one hour per side in 1925 and finally in 1970 each side had just 30 minutes for oral argument. This practice continues today. In fact the Court has also put limitations on written briefs. The parties’ briefs in cases coming up for oral arguments may not exceed 15,000 words. This ensures that the lawyers fully research and contain all relevant citations in their briefs, rather than depending upon their eloquence in oral arguments. This cuts both ways and gives Justices the time to read and even have the briefs researched thoroughly with the help of their assistants and then seek clarifications, if needed, in those 30 minutes.If we were to follow this practice, not only will this tremendously help in bringing down the number of cases pending adjudication, it will also help in resolving a longstanding issue of the up-and-coming lawyers. These lawyers feel rather strongly that they are not given as much time as the more established big name or big firm lawyers. A recent op-ed written by a budding lawyer and published in another English language newspaper from Karachi, mentioned exactly the same issue. Giving unlimited time to lawyers just prolongs cases and burdens their clients with additional appearance fees and expenses for travel and hotel. A few months ago, a lawyer argued for 4 straight days about just one aspect of a case. Then there were other lawyers arguing about other aspects of the same case. Result: case still pending.Another way to limit cases and expedite justice is to simplify the language contained in the statutes. A simple reading of any statute, old or new, will show us that it’s written in a language that is not in common use.In my view it’s time for the Supreme Court and even the High Courts to limit the time of the oral arguments to a maximum of 30 minutes for each party and insist that the written briefs with a set word limit must contain all relevant citations and arguments in their favor. The Courts can then focus on seeking clarifications during the oral arguments. Imagine, if we had followed this practice in the Panama cases for example; how much time and public money we could have saved? Gradually this practice can be introduced to the subordinate judiciary to expedite cases.Another way to limit cases and expedite justice is to simplify the language contained in the statutes. A simple reading of any statute, old or new, will show us that it’s written in a language that is not in common use. In our daily lives how many times do we use thereafter, or hereinafter or party of the first or second part etc. Phrases in Urdu are even more ridiculous. Consider a commonly written phrase in Urdu language plaints/applications “Mun kay Mussami.” Whatever that means. No real efforts have been made to simplify language so that a layperson can understand the meaning without the help of the lawyers, who like psychologists and doctors love jargon, which invariably complicates thing. Increasingly, large US law firms are now employing editors to simplify letters sent to clients and even advise on the wording of contracts.In UK, the City Council in Bradford experimented with plain English with fascinating results. In consultation with a lawyer, a group comprising a journalist, a librarian, teachers etc. redrafted the rules, standing orders and other legal documents. The final product was much easier to understand because jargon was kept to a minimum. The reason our statutes are so complicated is because of the jargon and absence of fresh thinking or thinking out of the box. Perhaps our Governmental Law departments staffed with career civil servants or so-called drafting experts should also consider employing English and Urdu language teachers, editors, writers, journalists and librarians. The final product will surely help litigants and further the cause of justice.Another hot topic in criminal justice system is that of perjury. The Supreme Court has in the last few years lamented time and again perjury by the witnesses in criminal trials. Prevention being better than cure, the District and Sessions Judges may like to prepare lists of all witnesses in criminal trials pending in their areas to see if one witness was appearing in more than one criminal case. This National Identity Cards-driven database will flag the “usual suspects” or the professional witnesses. The tendency is that such witnesses stick to their areas of residence and, therefore, could be appearing in more than one case in the same area. A similar exercise can be carried out to flag out those police officers who like to rely on torture or false testimonies to strengthen their investigations. They generally repeat their “special expertise” in every police station they are attached to. Once this list is prepared, it will be easy to see if the same witness is appearing in more than one case or if there is a connection between a witness and an errant police officer.A few months ago, I wrote “While volunteering for a few months in 2018 with Justice Project Pakistan (JPP), a non-profit human rights law firm established in 2009 in Lahore, I came across some 1867 cases of torture and destruction of rights by police in Faisalabad district alone. Although most victims were men, police did not spare women and even children. Many of the police atrocities have been documented in reports prepared by students of The Allard K. Lowenstein International Human Rights Clinic at Yale Law School and JPP, published in June 2014.” Later on upon analyzing this study we found that the same police officers carried out atrocities whether posted in one police station or another. I guess old habits do die hard.So it will not be difficult to look for professional witnesses and errant police officers and take preventive action against them. By the time a person convicted for murder under duress or a false testimony is finally released by the Supreme Court, he or she has spent considerable time behind bars. Sometimes even a lifetime. The State must proceed against witnesses who give false testimony, and those police officers who encourage and perpetuate such testimonies by knowingly producing such witnesses. In the recent years the Supreme Court has released a number of death row prisoners who had been convicted on false testimonies but without compensation for living behind bars. While I agree that no amount of compensation can bring back the years spent behind bars, however, some compensation to start life anew is warranted even if there is an absence of a specific law on the subject. In my view, the Court could give the Government a direction to “adequately” compensate the person concerned within a week or two on account of the criminal justice system’s failure to provide justice. People, after all, look for justice towards the Supreme Court and only the Supreme Court. A friend once told me that if he were killed in New York, he would die with the satisfaction that his killers will be caught and justice served. In the same breath he also said that if he were killed in Karachi, he would die with the regret that his killers will not be caught and justice shall not be served. This coming from a law abiding and tax-paying citizen is a sad commentary on our police and justice system.Thurgood Marshall, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, and the first African-American Justice famously said “We must never forget that the only real source of power that we as judges can tap is the respect of the people.”Let’s work towards getting justice and the respect of all people!"
Khayyam Munawar,Covid-19 and Pakistan’s Economy,2020-06-22,"The Coronavirus, codenamed COVID-19 was first traced and reported back on the 1st of November in the Wuhan city of China and has since wreaked havoc worldwide. With over 8.66 Million reported cases and approximately 460,000 deaths to date it was declared a global pandemic by WHO on the 11th of March-2020.Although the exact source of this RNA virus remains to be officially named, amidst numerous conspiracy theories and opinions it is believed to have been contracted from a species of bats and contrary to popular belief is neither caused by 5G towers nor does some multi-billion dollar corporation have a stake in its spread.A global recession seems inevitable as worldwide trade continues to contract which is predicted to be much more potent than the one caused in 1945 and 2009. With reference to the IEA Oil Market report, the worldwide average oil consumption is expected to contract by a record 9.3 mb/d comparative to 2019 in relation to the twin demand and supply shocks caused by containment measures across 187 countries. Oil prices reacted to the thinning demand and have decreased by 62.51% since January-2020. The impact of COVID-19 is widespread and the total exports across 46 major contributors to the world trade fell by 11% over the first 4 months of 2020 in comparison to 2019. Livelihood of millions is at stake as numerous small-scale businesses worldwide cease operations and wide-scale unemployment looms on the horizon.The economy of Pakistan paints a similar picture: With the country being a low-income developing entity, its economic metrics were showing signs of mild improvement prior to the pandemic and inflation was expected to stay at a single digit figure after soaring to 7.3% in 2019. The State Bank of Pakistan suggested a modest figure of 3.3% in terms of actual GDP growth however the state had to impose a lockdown on the 23rd of march in line with the directions of WHO and the GDP growth as a result was revised to a negative 1.3% with serious implications to the low-income earning group, 125 million of which are expected to fall below the poverty line over the course of 2020.With the spread of COVID-19, China had to restrict its trade, and the majority of that vacuum was redirected to the remaining Asian states. Loss of a major supplier meant higher lead times, inability to meet export orders and potential loss of international customers, all of which are conditions that raise doubt over the ability of an entity to operate as a going concern. The effects of this have trickled down to the sectors of Agriculture, Machinery and Equipment, Transportation, Textiles, Tourism, Financial Services, Telecom and IT, Automotive, Construction, Education, Power generation and Health and Care. Exports were cut short by U$ 2 Billion for the period March-May 2020 compared to the year 2019The lockdown dictated a large part of how commodities were locally consumed and there was a drastic increase in the consumption and hoarding of consumables subsequent to the imposition of the lockdown (as seen in the case of perishable consumables and medical supplies). The transportation had halted in numerous parts of the country, timely delivery of consumables was affected creating a gap in the supply and demand which was further aggravated by import barriers as neighboring states exercised their individual lockdowns(import of food products during May-2020 was reduced by 21% relative to that in May-2019). However, employment in the particular sector remained relatively secure and insulated. The onset of COVID-19 impacted the Machinery sector in the form of unavailability of input materials, decline in local and export sided demand. Multiple expansion projects in relation to increasing the electricity transmission network have also either been scraped or delayed.The Transportation sector accounts for 12.89% of the GDP and 5.7% of the national labor force and whilst courier services remained functional though limited, passenger transportation had completely halted in most instances. Services such as metro had to cease their primary operations (incurring further losses of PKR 500 Billion) and it became increasingly difficult to source airplane tickets, which in some cases were selling at a premium of up to 40%. The civil aviation authority bore losses of up to PKR 19 billion during the period flights remained suspended. Railways too had to limit their operations in compliance with the lockdown and were burdened with a loss PKR 10 Billion. Petrol prices were reduced by PKR 37/Liter over the period March-June and although there were attempts to create an artificial shortage on part of petrol pump owners to escape losses, Prime Minister Imran Khan has assured that such an activity shall not be tolerated and strict action be taken against offenders. Oil companies and authorities have been directed to ensure a smooth supply.The Textile sector contributes 8.5% to the total GDP and 56% to the total export basket and in most cases remains dependent on imports of raw materials from China (as in the case of MMF). Most mills were operating at maximum capacity when China drew out but as the global demand of textiles contracted (such is the case each time the consumer’s purchase power gets constricted, expenditure related to clothing are one of the first to be controlled), exports declined and exportable inventory began to saturate warehouses. Exports from the textile group decreased by 36% for the period March-May 2020 compared to last year and APTMA has demanded that aid be allocated to the industry in form of working capital and utility bill credit provision if the losses on exports are to be recovered.Small scale businesses are limited to resources that are adequate enough to sustain a months’ worth of cash-flow requirements at best in cases revenue is constricted, the majority of which were exhausted during the lock down. Reportedly, salaries of up to 50% were deducted in some instances in the private sector, capping the movement and purchase power of the consumer(especially in the consumption of luxury items).Commercial investment will be further hindered by the changing consumer sentiment which as a consequence will exert further stress on macroeconomic growth. The Ministry of planning has suggested that an approximate of 12.4-18.5 Million jobs are at a risk and has further assessed losses of up to PKR 1.2 Trillion during a lockdown situation.The terms of the first lockdown were openly violated due to which the subsequent spike in positive cases was observed. As of 20th June, 171,666 active cases have been reported,144,192 of which pertain to the period after the first lockdown was lifted.3,382 patients have expired due to Covid-19 and WHO insists that a second much stricter lockdown be imposed to tackle the exacerbating situation. The state has been very active in their attempts to mitigate the spread of Covid-19 and has taken up multiple routes to educate the public.PM Imran Khan even went the extent to announce a relief package worth PKR 1.2 Trillion to facilitate the public, disbursing PKR 131.8 Billion so far and serving 10.9 Million affectees. However, despite these efforts the final responsibility rests with the general public, as they play the most vital role when it comes to flattening the curve .The importance of adhering to the guidelines mentioned at http://covid.gov.pk/ cannot be stressed enough.Fueled by our personal interests, we tend to ignore that we are all in the same boat; we tend to set aside the needs of the nation as a unit and focus over our individual needs. Surviving the pandemic requires a collective effort. It is high time that we embrace that it is decidedly unlikely that the situation will improve and we’re looking at changes that might permanently be baked into our lives. Until a cure is formulated, we have to accept the current circumstances as the new norm."
Humayun Gauhar,The Gun Slinger,2020-06-22,"Man has been pretty awful to other menWhen I say gunslinger, your mind would automatically go to the USA. It certainly comes across as the Number One gunslinger who is extremely trigger happy. But it is not alone. There are others, many others, and in history virtually every country of consequence has been a gunslinger. It is only that right now we, the rest of the world, are being faced with the American gunslinger which is led by an irresponsible and intellectually wanting man.America’s current gunslinging is, most of all, an open season on Black Americans. Somehow it has got ingrained in the White man’s DNA over the years. I can’t forget that not even a century ago, the State of Missouri used to issue hunting licenses to people to kill what we then happily called, “Negroes” or “niggers.” That hunting license has got ingrained in their DNA and in the white man, especially in the police, it is still there. It has become instinctive so that if something untoward happens anywhere, it is automatically assumed that a black man is behind it. Which makes me think that had George Floyd been white, he may not have been killed wantonly by a white police officer. or the black man in Georgia who was shot dead by white police for being drunk. These were just the last two killings recently that we know of; they are part of a long list of killings where you would have thought they were shooting some wild animal and the President of the United States is in denial, trying to minimize it. The fact is that the country has erupted in protests, which is why I and many, many others are talking of a seminal change from the grievous weakening of the dollar to the fragmentation of the United States.While talking of Man’s cruelties, it is easy to forget Man’s achievements. America’s achievements in science, technology and medicine have been amazing and may they never stop. In our feeling of hurt right now it is easy to forget that the white man is also a human being and deserves as much consideration as a non-white. So let’s not start gloating over their temporary misfortune. After all, the Covid-19 crisis has made everyone look to the USA to find the vaccine. Frankly, instead of going on lambasting generation after generation and state after state, the world should be looking for consensus and equilibrium to live in harmony and never forget that we have one world to share. And if we destroy the entire cake there will not be one slice left for anyoneThe litany of crimes against mankind done by the European colonizers does not even bear thinking about: what the British did in India and Africa; what the French did in their colonies and the Dutch in Indonesia and the Belgians in Africa. And of course, what the white man did to the original or Native Americans – it was a horrendous number, far overtaking the number killed in Hitler’s Holocaust. If the African is an unwilling settler in America, the white man is a willing settler who killed the natives and stole their land. In India, to quote just one incident, the muslin weavers in Bengal lived in a cluster of around seven villages. Their product was providing grave competition to the cotton of the Manchester textile mills, so the Brits cut off their thumbs. In the 1980s, their graves were found in Bengal. where all the men were thumbless. The British did this through the world’s first ever corporation, called the East India Company. When the first rebellion against the Company was quashed, the Indian Emperor, Bahadur Shah Zafar was tried for ‘treason,’ found guilty and banished along with his family to Burma. He was a great poet and his grave was found I think in the 1980s in Burma. Have you ever heard of such nonsense? That the ruler of a country is tried for treason against a firm? It beggars imagination. The British colonizers in Australia used to play polo with the heads of Aboriginal children. After hearing this, my daughter started cursing, but if I told her the entire litany of Man’s cruelty against Man, her hair would turn white at this young age. As Wordsworth said, “And much it grieved my heart to think what Man has made of Man.”What Man has done to Man does not bear thinking about. The killings of Chinese during the Great October Revolution of 1949; thoughtless killings in Russia during and after the so-called revolution; how African states still fall on one another in tribal conflicts and I daresay indulge in cannibalism; the Crusaders who killed children in villages they took over and barbequed them for their consumption; how the stomachs of pregnant women were ripped open during the Pakistan-Bangladesh civil war and little flags planted in their wombs; how British perfidy led to an unknown amount of killing and dislocation in India and Pakistan; what the Spanish did in South America…want me to go on?The While Man has been a very constructive species, he has also been a very destructive one. Ingrained racism is widespread. Else why would a cream called “Fair and Lovely” be so popular in Pakistan, and I daresay India. A mullah in Pakistan says that in Heaven, the black women who become houris will turn white. I didn’t bother you with how the Neanderthals were made extinct by homo sapiens– two species that used to conjugate and reproduce. They say there is 4fourt to five percent of Neanderthal blood in all of us.My point is that in Man’s cruelty against Man, America alone does not stand out. The rest of us are also vile culprits. So, when and if homo sapiens, ‘the wise hominoid’ finally makes himself extinct, we have no idea what may come. Anyway, in all this turmoil, the US Presidential elections are upon us. President Trump’s rival, Joe Biden, fears that a defeated Trump will refuse to part from office and the US military will be forced to escort him out of the White House. Why say escort? Let’s say frog march. But, one mad man does not an entire country make.While talking of Man’s cruelties, it is easy to forget Man’s achievements. America’s achievements in science, technology and medicine have been amazing and may they never stop. In our feeling of hurt right now it is easy to forget that the white man is also a human being and deserves as much consideration as a non-white. So let’s not start gloating over their temporary misfortune. After all, the Covid-19 crisis has made everyone look to the USA to find the vaccine. Frankly, instead of going on lambasting generation after generation and state after state, the world should be looking for consensus and equilibrium to live in harmony and never forget that we have one world to share. And if we destroy the entire cake there will not be one slice left for anyone."
Omer Javed,"Covid-19, FDI and Privatization Prospects",2020-06-22,"The pandemic has made privatisation a problemAs the government is reportedly looking to privatize Pakistan Steel Mills (PSM), among other state-owned enterprises (SOEs), it should know that regardless of the debate that whether SOEs should be privatized or not, given the current pandemic and with it the existence of lockdowns in many parts of the world, these times of great economic uncertainty do not present themselves as the best time.For one, aggregate demand and supply have collapsed, and winds of deglobalization have gained strength, and things are likely to follow this trend at least till there becomes available an appropriate vaccine. These are indeed not the best time to expect a lot of interest from foreign investors, especially in assets like PSM, which are in really bad shape, both in terms of efficiency and debt.In fact, according to a recently released ‘World Investment Report 2020: International production beyond the pandemic’ by United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) ‘Global flows of foreign direct investment (FDI) will be under severe pressure this year as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These vital resources are expected to fall sharply from 2019 levels of $1.5 trillion, dropping well below the trough reached during the global financial crisis and undoing the already lackluster growth in international investment over the past decade. Flows to developing countries will be hit especially hard, as export-oriented and commodity-linked investments are among the most seriously affected.’Overall, even if the privatization aspect is put aside, the impact of covid-19 in terms of FDI, much needed employment opportunities, and built-up in reserves and with it stability to currency that FDI could provide, and which is much needed given the country is struggling on all these counts for many years now, the outlook for FDI brings little hope. This is all the more disturbing, given countries, especially mostly highly indebted developing countries like Pakistan, are also facing negative pressures in terms of exports and remittances, in the wake of recessionary trends taking hold globallyAccording to the Report, that trough after the Global Financial Crisis (2009) was at $1.2 trillion, but the situation is expected to be much worse for 2020 and 2021, whereby ‘The COVID-19 crisis will cause a dramatic drop in foreign direct investment (FDI) in 2020 and 2021. It will have an immediate negative impact in 2020, with a further deterioration in 2021. Global FDI flows are forecast to decrease by up to 40 per cent in 2020, from their 2019 value of $1.54 trillion. This would bring FDI below $1 trillion for the first time since 2005. FDI is projected to decrease by a further 5 to 10 per cent in 2021. In relative terms the projected fall is expected to be worse than the one experienced in the two years following the global financial crisis. At their lowest level ($1.2 trillion) then, in 2009, global FDI flows were some $300 billion higher than the bottom of the 2020 forecast. The downturn caused by the pandemic follows several years of negative or stagnant growth; as such it compounds a longer-term declining trend. The expected level of global FDI flows in 2021 would represent a 60 per cent decline since 2015, from $2 trillion to less than $900 billion.’Furthermore, the Report highlights that the outlook for FDI beyond 2021 also looks ‘highly uncertain’ whereby ‘A U-shaped trajectory, with a recovery of FDI to its pre-crisis trend line before 2022, is possible but only at the upper bound of the expectations. Economic and geopolitical uncertainty look set to dominate the investment landscape in the medium term. At the lower bound of the forecast, further stagnation in 2022 will leave the value of global FDI well below the 2019 level.’ One wonders then why Pakistan would be looking to enter the process of privatization, given the grim nature of prospects of FDI in the short- to medium term. Perhaps, a better option for the government, even if it is convinced to privatize SOEs, is to improve the status of SOEs during the medium term, and then open up for discussions in this direction.Overall, even if the privatization aspect is put aside, the impact of covid-19 in terms of FDI, much needed employment opportunities, and built-up in reserves and with it stability to currency that FDI could provide, and which is much needed given the country is struggling on all these counts for many years now, the outlook for FDI brings little hope. This is all the more disturbing, given countries, especially mostly highly indebted developing countries like Pakistan, are also facing negative pressures in terms of exports and remittances, in the wake of recessionary trends taking hold globally.Moreover, the situation sets in quite a reversal from 2019, when after a number of years, FDI inflows in Pakistan had somewhat reached a relatively higher level. According to the Report ‘In Pakistan, FDI recovered in 2019, growing 28 percent to $2.2 billion after a deep fall of 30 percent in 2018 as the country faced balance-of-payment challenges. The growth was driven by equity investments in the energy, financial, and textiles industries, with major investors from China and the United Kingdom.’The Report highlights that given the negative impact of the pandemic on FDI possibilities, Brazil has decided to take a step back for its earlier planning in this regard. This should serve as a good example for those reportedly pushing for privatization in Pakistan at this point in time. According to the Report ‘Brazil registered a 20 percent increase [in FDI in 2019] to $72 billion, with investors attracted by the oil and gas extraction and electricity industries. Economic conditions appeared to improve in the country, and a wide-ranging privatization program was launched in July as part of the administration’s efforts to relaunch the economy. During the first nine months of 2019, the Government raised about $20 billion through privatizations and divestments, $1.4 billion in payments for rights to operate infrastructure and about $3 billion in “sales of natural assets,” consisting mainly of the State-controlled Petrobras oil exploration areas… For 2020 the Government was expecting to be able to sell another $35 billion of assets; however, as the coronavirus pandemic is tipping the economy back into recession, the volatility associated with the crisis has worsened the selling conditions, pushing the authorities to postpone most of the announced share sales. Similarly, transactions waiting for regulatory approval have been halted.’"
Syed Kaswar Gardezi,Judicial escape,2020-06-22,"The government still has been left optionsFollowing months of endless hearings and a relentless pursuit by the government and the supporters of judicial independence, the Mr Justice Qazi Faez Isa case finally came to an end, for the time being. The arguments at the rostrum spanned over a wide spectrum ranging from mala fides to tax discrepancies, misconduct and judicial surveillance. While some termed it as a form of judicial accountability, the far sighted ones were able to see the case for what it truly was; part of the fight for judicial independence.Without having even read the presidential reference, the self-proclaimed analysts and experts of our country started lambasting the top judge amidst allegations of corruption and ill-gotten wealth. Unfortunately, owing to the underlying defects in the accountability process in Pakistan, any person with an accusation is convicted and found guilty by the social media prior to the commencement of his or her legal trial. No matter who the individual is, a mere accusation is sufficient to submerge his or her dignity under allegations of corrupt practices. The same has been the fate of Mr Justice Isa. An entire social media campaign continues to be run against him and his family calling upon them to be accountable. What this segment of society, whose judgement remains clouded, fails to comprehend is the root cause of the entire case; the vindictive agenda of the government.Nevertheless, the top court finally rendered its much anticipated judgement. While the judgement was initially celebrated by the flag bearers of judicial independence, a careful scrutiny of the short order paints a disturbing picture. On the face of it, the presidential reference has been quashed and, resultantly, the show-cause notice stands abated. However, the case is far from over. In fact, it may have inaugurated the sequel of the entire case.Nevertheless, the top court instead of stepping forward and issuing a bold decision, has escaped its way out of the controversial petitions. Controversial because a judge was being judged by other judges. This order can be quoted as one of the finest examples of a judicial escape in the modern times where the judiciary wriggles out of a tight spot instead of standing firm and issuing a strong verdict irrespective of the repercussions. Mr Justice Qazi Faez Isa, or I’d rather say, judicial independence, may have won the battle for now, but the war is far from over and is yet to come. With defeat in the first round, the opponents are more likely to come better prepared and strike back harderFirstly, the seven honourable members of the bench, writing for the majority have directed the FBR to issue notices and proceed against the family members of Mr Justice Isa. Relaxation on the law of limitation pertaining to tax matters has been given for reasons hopefully to be unveiled in the detailed judgement. Secondly, a direction has been given against the family members of Mr Justice Isa who were never a party before the apex court nor were duly represented by their respective counsels. Though, the wife of the honourable Judge was granted the opportunity to present her stance, the same principle of natural justice should have been provided to the children of the petitioner judge.The disturbing aspect of the short order is the vehement stance regarding submission of the FBR report to the Supreme Judicial Council and a detailed mechanism into how this exercise has to be conducted. If the reference under challenge has been quashed then what is the need for the SJC to examine the report of the FBR? More so when the FBR only has to proceed against the independent family members of Mr Justice Isa. A dangerous comment would lead one to believe as though the majority of the bench is already aware of any possible judicial misconduct on part of Mr Justice Isa which will be unearthed during the FBR proceedings. Why else would the bench feel the need for the SJC to go over the FBR report? A more pragmatic approach would have been the submission of the report before this bench which could have then made a judicial determination as to whether there was sufficient material for the matter to be referred to the SJC or otherwise.In presence of strong allegations of state maneuvering against Justice Isa, the bench has also overlooked the influence and oversight of the government over the FBR. While on one hand the government reference has been binned, at the same time an opportunity has been provided to it to come back with something concrete. In fact, they have also been pointed in the right direction as most would assume, with all due respect to the honorable bench. The short order further details that, irrespective of the pendency of any appeal against any order of the commissioner, the SJC may make any order as it sees fit. What if the SJC decides to proceed on the basis of an order made by the commissioner and subsequently the same order fails to hold ground in appeal? Will the SJC proceedings abate or will they still continue?The decision on Justice Isa’s case was one which would have redefined the future of our country’s judiciary and its independence. The entire country had its eyes towards the Supreme Court in anticipation of a victory. Unfortunately, most are happy on the reference being quashed but have failed to comprehend the veiled continuation of the proceedings. It is one of those instances where both parties have expressed their satisfaction over the decision and mostly such instances are dangerous for one of the parties in the future.The government has readily accepted the verdict as it has found room for itself to create a new case against Mr Justice Isa by virtue of the FBR which can then be taken up by the SJC. The only silver lining in the order is the ouster of the government’s role in filing of a reference on this particular matter. It has been left open for the SJC to procced in its suo motu jurisdiction if the need be.Nevertheless, the top court instead of stepping forward and issuing a bold decision, has escaped its way out of the controversial petitions. Controversial because a judge was being judged by other judges. This order can be quoted as one of the finest examples of a judicial escape in the modern times where the judiciary wriggles out of a tight spot instead of standing firm and issuing a strong verdict irrespective of the repercussions. Mr Justice Qazi Faez Isa, or I’d rather say, judicial independence, may have won the battle for now, but the war is far from over and is yet to come. With defeat in the first round, the opponents are more likely to come better prepared and strike back harder."
M A Niazi,Dying even without Covid-19,2020-06-21,"CITY NOTESThere were many blows to the world of show business in the last week, but none due to the coronavirus. In fact, all it managed in Pakistan was a Gilgit-Baltistan minister, as if to show that there was still an epidemic on. Of course it has taken 3,381 other lives by Saturday night.The really strange thing was that all of those departing were because of their age alone, at heightened risk of death by the coronavirus. I mean, Sabiha Khanum was 84, as was Tariq Aziz. Sabiha had been a leading lady, then prominent in mother’s roles, before finally retiring even from those roles to settle in the USA. Tariq Aziz remained here, and was once an MNA, famous for his leading role in the 1997 attack on the Supreme Court, but his greatest fame was as the host of Pakistan’s first game show, Neelam Ghar. For Pakistani game-show hosts, he still represents the gold standard of hosting.But perhaps the most grievous loss was suffered by the UK, where Vera Lynn died, at the age of 103. She was the model on which we based Noor Jehan, for during World War II her songs were inspirational. The young Indian Army officers who were Pakistan’s top commanders in 1965 probably had her in mind when Noor Jehan did her songs. He is credited with the performance of 1965, though I’ve never heard Vera Lynn credited with winning World War II. Still, I won’t rule out the Noor Jehan factor, for she wasn’t around in 1971, which Pakistan lost.Speaking of 1971, we also lost one of the fighter pilots of 1965, Group Captain (retd) Saiful Islam, who died in Dhaka at 80. While he had been commissioned into the PAF, it was from the BAF that he retired. I wonder if the SJ he won in 1965 was ever held against him in Bangladesh. The great M.M. Alam was also an Eat Pakistani, but remained in Pakistan, retiring as an Air Commodore. It seems something got into those young Bengalis when they got in the air.If we lost one of the heroes of 1965, the USA lost a former ambassador to Eire, though Jean Kennedy Smith is better remembered as the last surviving sibling of resident John F. Kennedy to die, at 92. Still, that was perhaps not as serious a loss as that of Ian Holm, who played Bilbo Baggins not just in The Lord of the Rings trilogy, but also in The Hobbit trilogy. And he had more of a role to play in the second.And none of these deaths were because of the coronavirus. However, in Burundi, it did take the life of its President. Pierre Nkurunziza died at 55, after having been in power since 2005. A former French colony, Burundi has only 104 covid-19 cases and Nkurunziza has been so far the only death. His wife got it first, and as any married man knows, he had to put up or shut up. Well, he’s shut up permanently. Of course, one of the problems is that there is only one ventilator in the whole of Burundi. Of course, one may argue that it’s a small African country; but it has a population about the size of Lahore (12 million). Imagine the kerfuffle if Lahore had only one ventilator… And then someone like the CM got coid-19… As for its bring an African country, don’t Black Lives Matter?There were two suicides of American blacks in California, which were suspected by some of being lynchings. Well, Sushant Singh Rajput, was found hanging from a fan in Mumbai. There were some half-hearted cried of “Murder”, but how the murderer got him to hang from the fan, I can’t imagine.And maybe the suicide fitted in with the suicide of his ex-manager, a woman, just days before. Now there are three main motives for suicide: failure in exams, economic worry, being unlucky in love. Rajput was beyond the exam stage, and there is no lucklessness in love (and it couldn’t have been the lady manager, or they would have made a pact of it), but he did have money problems, having paid off his staff before offing himself. Or is anyone saying he was lynched by irate fans?Meanwhile, in Pakistan, a court decided that MQM supremo AltafHussain was a conspirator in the murder of Dr Imran Farooq, the party’s first National Assembly party leader back in 1988. That was the trial court. There will lie appeals to the High Court and then the Supreme Court.The Supreme Court cancelled the reference against Mr Justice Qazi Faez Isa, ruling that the FBR had to first hound his wife and children before he could be hounded. It might be remembered that Mr Justice Isa got a notice from the Supreme Judicial Council after he authored the judgement in the Faizabad dharna case which made some remarks about a certain institution."
Arif Nizami,The enfant terrible,2020-06-21,"A pyrrhic victory for judge Isa?The very day BNP-M (Balochistan National Party-Mengal) announced quitting the PTI (Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf) ruling alliance, the prime minister in Karachi declared that the 18th amendment to the constitution needs to be fixed. Surely the timing was coincidental. But the irony was not.On the one side the smaller provinces are demanding more autonomy (or at least affording them what is given in the constitution), while on the other hand the chief executive of the federation wants to clip their wings. Khan, in a pointed reference towards the Sindh chief minister Murad Ali Shah, lamented that chief ministers have become dictators post eighteenth amendment.Perhaps there is an urgent need on the part of the rulers to study the chequered political history of the nation. The country is still reeling from the aftereffects of Machiavellian schemes launched by self-serving politicians and authoritarian military dictators.Pakistan was envisaged as a federation by its founding fathers. But hapless politicians and behind the scene mechanizations of ambitious military rulers had other ideas. East Pakistan, having a bigger population as a province, would be more dominant than the four provinces of West Pakistan; it was feared since the very inception of the country.Khan might be satisfied that the four BNP-M National Assembly members and one senator leaving the ruling coalition will pose no immediate threat. But more than number crunching the present mindset needs to be altered.Hence the government in its wisdom lunched a chimerical formula in the form of parity. Under the so-called ‘one-unit scheme’, West Pakistan became a single province announced by Prime Minister Chaudhry Muhammad Ali in 1954.This act coupled with East Pakistan’s already less than proportionate seats in the constituent assembly, created resentments and doubts about the intentions of the establishment and West Pakistani politicians.In October 1958 the scheming commander in chief general Ayub Khan took over the reins of the government through a coup d’état. A ‘strong centre’ was his mantra, which ultimately led to the break-up of the country.It was general Ayub Khan’s successor coupster general Yahya Khan who restored status quo ante in 1969, thereby reinstating the four provinces of West Pakistan and doing away with the flawed ‘parity’ formula.After the loss of East Pakistan, a truly federal parliamentary system was introduced in the consensual constitution in 1973 under the stewardship of Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto. But even Bhutto, a seasoned politician with a sense of history, could not outgrow the strong centre syndrome.Within a year of taking over the reins of a truncated Pakistan, Bhutto dismissed the NAP (National Awami Party) and the JUI (Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam) coalition government in Balochistan. This led to a four-year-old insurgency that ultimately led to the PPP government’s down fall.It was in this backdrop that to restore the federal parliamentary nature of the constitution- distorted by successive military dictators- a consensual amendment was passed. Both the PPP and the PML-N had learnt their bitter lessons while in exile. Hence a charter of democracy (COD) was signed by Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif in 2006 in LondonIt was in this spirit that a new leaf was turned by devolving powers to the provinces and giving them a bigger slice of the financial pie in the form of the 7th NFC (National Finance Commission) Award by the PPP government in 2010. The idea behind the 18th amendment (to the constitution) was to reinstate the parliamentary and federal system under the1973 constitution.Fast forward to now, a decade later, the PTI led federal government seems to be up in arms against the smaller provinces.Obviously, the prime minister is miffed about the independence being shown by the Sindh chief minister. His government’s performance in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic crisis is much more decisive and clear-headed in sharp contrast to the mushy approach of the federal government.On the question of lockdown Murad Ali Shah’s stand has been vindicated. In a recent press conference Shah made fun of ‘the smart lockdown, selective lockdown’- terms coined by the prime minister- contending either there is a lockdown or no lockdown.But perhaps a deeper malaise is the perception that somehow the provinces are having a ball at the expense of the federal government. Obviously, the protagonists of the 7th NFC award had assumed that the economy will grow and with it the piece of the pie to be shared.It was envisaged that tax to GDP ratio, even if it grows by one percent annually, in a decade it would have added Rs 4.5 trillion in revenue to the present Rs 45 trillion to the kitty.But unfortunately, the tax to GDP ratio has remained stubbornly stagnant hovering around 9 percent. Added to this is the alarmingly increasing losses of the SOEs (state owned enterprises) that have further impoverished the federal government.These are no fault of the provinces. Instead of tinkering with the eighteenth amendment and reducing provincial share under a new NFC award, the federal government could be castigated by the provinces for the presumptive loss to the provinces in the form of additional revenues. Secondly, money being given to provinces is no dole. It is their constitutional right.Nonetheless, the constitution is not a Gospel that cannot be amended by consensus, unfortunately hitherto lacking.Khan might be satisfied that the four BNP-M National Assembly members and one senator leaving the ruling coalition will pose no immediate threat. But more than number crunching the present mindset needs to be altered.None of Akhter Mengal’s demands are non-negotiable. But it is a sad state of affairs that Balochistan has been consistently treated as an enfant terrible of the federation?Take the case of Supreme Court judge Qazi Faiz Isa who belongs to a well-known family of Balochistan. His late father Qazi Essa was one of the founders of the Muslim league before 1947.But sadly, he faced a presidential reference that the apex court has quashed declaring it as invalid. During the hearings of justice Isa’s petition seeking the reference’s dismissal, it seemed not the judge but the government was on trial for filing a flawed and mala fide reference.Isa’s lawyer, Munir A Malik claimed in court that the government brought in a reference against his client because it wanted to remove the judge who had given an adverse verdict in the 2017 Faizabad sit-in case. The judgement lamented the alleged role of the agencies when the TLP’s (Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan) dharna participants received cash handouts from men in uniform.It was a bit surprising though that it took Isa’s peer judges a year to throw out a reference that they have now declared mala fide in their judgement. In the meanwhile, Isa and his family were left to stew in their juice.Babar Sattar, his erstwhile lawyer, has aptly tweeted: ‘unfortunately there is nothing to celebrate. More things change they remain the same’. In another tweet he added: ‘the apex court in its wisdom has left the door open for Shahzad Akbar in cahoots with the FBR (Federal Board of Revenue) to harass the judge and his family’.It just might prove a pyrrhic victory for those distributing mithai (sweets) outside the Supreme Court building.Heavens will not fall if an independent minded judge from Balochistan takes over as CJP (chief justice of Pakistan) in 2023- technically the year of the general elections. The government should concentrate on improving its governance rather than engaging in such shenanigans."
Rabia Ahmed,Who let the dogs out?,2020-06-21,"Sexual harassment allegations must be taken seriously; they’re probably trueThat must be the song ringing in the Pakistan People’s Party’s ears these days, a song that fits neatly with the rest of the story below.What with Cynthia Ritchie’s allegations, the MQM leadership under a ruling of murder and some of its top brass under arrest, the PPP must be feeling the heat. The same heat that feels like welcoming breeze to some others. Be that as it may, Cynthia Ritchie’s allegations have another side.Whatever and whoever Ms. Ritchie, who has lived here for ten years, is; whether or not anyone had the right to call her in to ‘investigate’ matters in Pakistan as she says is the case, however many ‘privileges’ she enjoys, is a separate matter. Without any reference to the individuals she has pointed fingers at, because there is no way of knowing if those accusations are genuine- her claims of the harassment suffered by women in general at the hands of men in general, are distressingly true, and when there is even a grain of truth in a matter, it warrants attention. And what Ms. Richie has said contains more than just a grain.“I understand why some women choose to wear burqas as a protective cover to keep the men from staring,” said Ritchie, speaking of her experience of Pakistan. “It’s important to note that both women and men stare, but men are more obvious. In Islam, men are taught to lower their gaze in front of a woman, but that does not happen often.”There are laws prohibiting child labour in Pakistan, but more than 11 million children are still working in this country, in homes, in factories, and elsewhere, many of them as indentured labour. Zahra was one of those unfortunates. She was killed by her employers, at their admission, when she let loose one of the birds they sold.These lines are shamefully true. Female workers walking to and from work regularly experience harassment by men on the street, and unless their employers act on their behalf, the police is likely to be added to their list of harassers, with a few merciful exceptions.Women drivers have similar experiences, and this is the reason why women cyclists are so rare in this country as to be almost non-existent. And yet, the religious right which never condemns and even propagates this attitude, seems to have the power to override the government, the courts and whoever else tries to disagree with them. This in itself is a situation as scary as any nuclear threat. Which way is our country headed? When will the government and the people realise the importance of everyone staying within their legal limits?Jirgas, often responsible for terrifyingly cruel judgements against women, were given legal sanction in Pakistan by a bill passed in the National Assembly in 2017. The bill gives constitutional cover to Jirgas and Panchayats, the ‘kangaroo courts’ to be found all over this country. Their decisions include ‘honour’ killings, pedophilia, kidnapping, forced marriage and all sorts of other horrific rulings. A national daily reported the case of an eight-year-old girl who was accused of adultery. As a result she was stoned to death by the villagers on the jirga’s orders. An eight-year-old child. A child.Women are sold or forced into marriage to pay for the crimes of men in their family. There was the case this year of a seven-year-old given in marriage for a crime committed by a family member. And of course there is always the well-known case of Mukhtaran Mai who was gangraped on the orders of a tribal council, as revenge for a crime committed by a kinsman. She spoke up against the matter. Normally women do not. They are expected to kill themselves in shame following the rape. Which occurred as a result of a crime committed by someone else. Where’s the logic or the justice, much less the humanity here?There is also the harassment suffered by women in the public light by their colleagues such as the scene created on public television by Talal Chaudhry, during which he addressed derogatory remarks against Kanwal Shozab, and called her names. Mr. Chaudhry is not new to such actions.There have been many, many such cases, such as Amir Liaquat’s lecherous tweet featuring Sherry Rehman. This man Liaquat, the man whose academic degrees have been declared fake, has been a member of the National Assembly on a PTI ticket since 2018.Cynthia Ritchie mentions other kinds of harassment as well.“I’ve also seen both sexes mistreat their servants, servants’ children, and scream abuses at poor people in the markets. In Pakistan, abuse is not as openly discussed as it is in the West. Abuse seems to be more acceptable as long as one maintains a luxury lifestyle.”This also is only too true. There was just this month the tragic case of eight-year-old Zahra who was hired by a couple to look after their one-year-old child.There are laws prohibiting child labour in Pakistan, but more than 11 million children are still working in this country, in homes, in factories, and elsewhere, many of them as indentured labour. Zahra was one of those unfortunates. She was killed by her employers, at their admission, when she let loose one of the birds they sold.Remember, eight years old and working. Eight years old and murdered. Why could no one save her? Is this the Land of the Pure? Don’t even think of Riasat-e-Madina, the biggest, saddest joke."
Raoof Hasan,The pit of all evils,2020-06-21,"“It appears to be among the laws of nature that the mighty of intellect should be pursued and carped by the little, as the solitary flight of one great bird is followed by the twittering petulance of many smaller.”–Walter Savage LandorUnder the shadow of growing concerns owing to the onset of covid-19, life is lurching along with little change noticed either in the ground realities, or the mindset people exude in talking petulantly about issues which may be of immense consequence in numerous ways.The battle against the deadly Coronavirus which should have been fought in earnest with unity and purpose has degenerated to a feud among political factions for scoring petty points. To top it all, all steps envisaged by the federal government have petered out before the rank indiscipline of the masses who have acted with bloated stocks of pretending immunity to the scourge.Immune they are not. No one is. We are vulnerable before the growing destruction wreaked by the pandemic, but we don’t realise that. We believe that this is all fate and it cannot be fought. The merchants of religion keep invoking people to submit before the creator and seek forgiveness for their ill deeds as being the only appropriate recompense.But, then, it is not without a reason that we have become what we have become. In the last 72 years, the state has virtually invested nothing in improving the stock of the people which, owing to lack of opportunities and empowerment, has continued to plunge. The bulk of the national wealth has been siphoned off illicitly to fill the coffers of the rulers and the crony beneficiary elite who, in addition to serving their own ends, aided and abetted the spree of loot and plunder let loose on this hapless land. This is in addition to assimilating varying degrees of bigotry which has drugged people to remain content in their miserable state as being the will of the creator. This has been the staple diet they have been fed on remorselessly.Undiplomatic it may have been, but Dr Yasmin Rashid, the Punjab Health Minister, was not wrong when she referred to the people of Lahore, a hotbed of infections, as ‘jaahil’ (ignorant). Ever since the advent of covid-19, she has been leading right from the front and has been a source of phenomenal inspiration for others to follow. With a deep professional understanding of the pandemic, she has personally delineated all possible steps to make people aware of the measures to adopt to combat the lurking dangers.But, unfortunately, that did not have much effect. It was, therefore, a moment of acute frustration that prompted her to blurt out the truth. But, she must understand that it is not a state of mind which is going to disappear by itself, or by a few words of censure. It is also not just days that may be required to alter the mindset that is so deeply embedded. It may take years, even decades, and that, too, if effective short-, medium- and long-term measures are devised and implemented without an interruption to educate people in disciplines other than merely contracting the germs of bigotry.Much is wrong in our midst and around us that we are not even sensitive to. It usually passes for the normal. We are so used to seeing this happen in our daily life that we have lost the necessary faculties to make out right from wrong. It is all encapsulated in one ritual tablet which we consume as the cure of our maladies. This happens both in terms of events and people, each being the consequence of the other and each merging into the other. So, what we see in the end is an odd contraption which is accepted as the reality to submit to, without any questions asked. This has been a tradition through decades and, given the continuing belittling circumstances, this is likely to remain the remedy in the foreseeable future also.In the absence of a change of mindset, there can be no substantive improvement, either around us, or in the environment that we breathe in. If that be the case, we would remain floating in stagnant waters, going around in circles, forever aware of our inability to undertake any constructive effort that will alter the way our life has been shaped. Eventually, this would be tantamount to falling prey to the evil machinations of the crony beneficiary elite who believe that we are but their slaves to be dealt with as may be their wont. That is also the reason why no resources have been made available to invest in the betterment of the impoverished and the destitute communities whose circumstances have only deteriorated further while the assets of the crony beneficiary elite have grown at a phenomenal pace.A society built on injustice is a society that loses its right to exist. The inherited germs of disparity and discrimination have been further perpetuated by the unholy alliance among a sequence of rulers and the domestically-grown crony beneficiary elite. The resolve of the incumbent government to cater to the poorer segments of the society may be praiseworthy, but words will not accrue improvement unless fundamental changes are brought about to eliminate the mafias whose interests have advanced at the cost of those of the impoverished, Chains must be broken because no one is born captiveThere may also be other contributing circumstances, but the pit of all evils is the twin-mindset that rules the rot. This is a mindset that believes in creating and augmenting a distinction between the privileged and the marginalised communities of the country. Consequently, the privileged ones have manoeuvred to land themselves in positions of power from where they can control the destinies of the poor. It is also the mindset whereby the poor have remained smitten by their self-destructive fatalism and a morbid resignation to the perception that it is all ordained by the skies. They are afraid of even thinking that they were not born in chains which have been put around them by the vile and the treacherous to suit their malevolent purposes. These must be broken because remaining enslaved is an acknowledgement of the helplessness before the very people who have systematically usurped what rightfully belongs to them.But this is not going to just pop out of nowhere. For this to happen would require courage and effort over a prolonged period of time, fully cognisant of the faith that the chains of slavery can and must be broken irrespective of the cost that may have to be paid. This is a necessary burden that will have to borne to be free of the captivity that the poor sections of the society have languished in through generations. The mantle of hubris must come down. The icons of savagery must be smashed because therein is the path to salvation for a majority of the people whose sufferance cannot be encapsulated in words alone.A society built on injustice is a society that loses its right to exist. The inherited germs of disparity and discrimination have been further perpetuated by the unholy alliance among a sequence of rulers and the domestically-grown crony beneficiary elite. The resolve of the incumbent government to cater to the poorer segments of the society may be praiseworthy, but words will not accrue improvement unless fundamental changes are brought about to eliminate the mafias whose interests have advanced at the cost of those of the impoverished, as also liberate the oppressed from the shackles of bigotry to fight for their legitimate rights.Silence is no longer an option. Spirited and meaningful action must be stirred. It may not be by the ones who have grown frail and weak amidst the ignominy of slavery imposed on them, but by their future generations who must invoke this fight, irrespective of the consequences."
Web Desk,The Covid-19 call for a Naya Pakistan,2020-06-20,"There must be more following of SOPsThe word coronavirus irks, with more than 8.6 million people infected by it and many more likely to be, like no other word these days. To some, the current statistics of this novel virus are official numbers and to some, it’s their loved ones. Amidst the plethora of information that everyone is trying to consume, the new normal is something that we all are desperately searching for. Pakistan has started to face the consequences of easing the lockdown or adopting the herd immunity approach (as many say). The World Health Organization has placed Pakistan in the top ten countries reporting the most cases. A surge in cases, constant warnings by the WHO, and fear of the overwhelming of the health system have proven the debacle performance of the state. This is probably a bona fide claim. A question that needs to be openly entertained is, Is it the state or us? Or Both?Blaming the state solely is an indication of living in limbo. Despite the government’s advice people managed to hold gatherings pre- and post-Eid, to be classified as violations of the standard operating procedures (SOPs). An extraordinary rush of buyers with no fear of coronavirus infection, and people not following the SOPs, were observed in many local shops. The 25 percent of our sales target achieved by shopkeepers and traders was nearly enough to overwhelm the health system. We as a nation happily traded transmission of covid-19 for our Eid shopping. Post-Eid, according to Capital City Police Officer (CCPO) Zulfiqar Hameed, the officers conducted surprise raids in 155 markets of the city and sealed 582 shops over violations. Challan tickets were issued to 717 motorcyclists for not wearing masks and 1,469 shopkeepers were issued warnings. The existential dilemma of Pakistan being a community-driven society has made social distancing a slightly difficult yardstick to follow.The covid-19 crisis has given Khan a second chance to change the innings and deliver Naya Pakistan by institutionalizing the structure of this country with an additional focus on data collection, health care, and education. Albeit none of this can be done by Khan alone, it’s time the whole nation joins hands with him and his government to bring about a change. As Rosemary Brown says “Until all of us have made it, none of us have made it.” It is indeed us and the stateHistory has shown innumerable times that the behavioral factors associated with human beings can change patterns during a pandemic. Research from 2003 outlines the pertinent role human behaviour played in managing the 2001-2002 Ebola outbreak in Uganda. And during the Spanish Flu pandemic of 1918-1919, behavioral factors, including the cancellation of large gatherings, physical distancing, and simple handwashing, helped to reduce the spread of the disease.Comparing Pakistan to New Zealand, China, the USA or the rest of Europe is merely like comparing apples to oranges. The parameters for success in this pandemic are relative to population size, awareness, leadership clarity, and presence of data. The unplanned, complete lockdown in India allows us to do a synchronal comparison versus Imran Khan’s choice of smart lockdown. The results of a so-called imposed smart lockdown in Pakistan and complete lockdown in India remain homogenous given the current statistics of both countries.There’s a fine line between leaving the citizens to follow the SOPs before flattening the curve and the overwhelming of the weak health system. Where does that fine line end? The basic control theory by Walter Reckless in 1973 postulates that an individual’s behaviour is determined by what he or she wants or desires the most at any given time. It further calls for centralized control, for instance, bureaucratic control through administrative and hierarchical structures. According to this theory federal coercion, support from the NCOC and public health agencies were enough to produce a standardized & clear message on covid-19. If the state got it right and nudged behaviour in the right direction at society, community and individual level, the resources available to fight the disease would have gone much further. But since the very beginning, there has been an apparent tiff between all the provinces and the federal government. Prime Minister Imran Khan keeps on reiterating the 18th Amendment, but only needs to realize that at this time being on the same page is what is needed. Khan, by constantly underestimating the impact of the coronavirus and instantly switching between lockdown, smart lockdown and no lockdown without flattening the curve, has further confused the masses who view the coronavirus as a hoax without registering its transmissible nature. Hence Karachi Liaquat National Hospital incident seemed justified to the protesters. The Government gave in to the demands of power lobbies and the religious leaders by opening mosques and holding taraweeh and Eid prayers. There’s no doubt that the reopening of the construction industry was led by elite and powerful industrialists of Pakistan and was later labeled as a pro-poor strategy.A non-technical question that comes to almost everyone’s mind is why can’t the government extend the lockdown and sort another ration scheme from the aid received? Why isn’t the foreign aid being used? Why do the poor have to choose between starvation and exposure to the coronavirus?Pakistan’s veiled socio-economic differences and complacent attitude to being in the backseat for evolution including technological advancement, have been exposed during the covid-19 andemic. It is for the first time since 1951-52 that Pakistan’s economy contracted, by 0.38% in the outgoing fiscal year due to this virus and pre coronavirus economic stabilization policies. Further, there is a need to investigate the sources of hot foreign money inflows in Pakistan that created an artificial sense of economic stability pre-coronavirus. The year 2020 is a wakeup call for Pakistan to seize the moment and revolutionize not just our present systems but our extant perspectives as well. The radical economic impacts include lower economic growth leading to negative GDP growth (projected by IMF, World Bank & SBP) & higher unemployment, being the two major bumps of this pandemic.The covid-19 crisis has given Khan a second chance to change the innings and deliver Naya Pakistan by institutionalizing the structure of this country with an additional focus on data collection, health care, and education. Albeit none of this can be done by Khan alone, it’s time the whole nation joins hands with him and his government to bring about a change. As Rosemary Brown says “Until all of us have made it, none of us have made it.” It is indeed us and the state.Mahin KhanMahin Khan is a freelance columnist"
Web Desk,India and the illicit nuclear trade,2020-06-20,"India is using the NSG waiver to advance its weapons programmeFor more than a decade, India has intensified its efforts to become a de jure member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), a global nuclear cartel, which was established in response to India’s nuclear test in 1974. The US-India nuclear deal of 2008 has already enabled India to gain access to the global nuclear market and allowed it to import uranium and other nuclear material for its civilian nuclear power plants. As a result of its persistent efforts, India has become a de-facto NSG member– the only nuclear weapon state with most of its facilities outside the IAEA safeguards and that has access to the global nuclear market without fulfilling the basic prerequisites. A number of countries including Pakistan have raised serious concerns over the US exceptionalism towards India and warned the global community that India can divert nuclear material for its military purposes. The open-source reports on India’s nuclear technology procurement network have vindicated these countries’ concerns. There are several Indian companies which are engaged in illicit nuclear procurement.As per these reports, “India relies on private contractors to procure goods for use in unsafeguarded nuclear facilities, which are not subject to IAEA verification. These contractors import primarily from a small group of countries, including Germany, China, and the United States— all NSG member states.” It also revealed that there are 86 companies that contracted with two or more unsafeguarded nuclear facilities in India. The top origin countries for these shipments are members of the NSG. It shows that India has long been using its de facto nuclear-power status to acquire nuclear technology and resources for its military as well as unsafeguarded nuclear facilities. For a long period of time, India has refused to bring those civilian unsafeguarded nuclear power plants under the IAEA safeguards. It has not provided a logical explanation to the IAEA for not safeguarding civilian unsafeguarded power plants.The new reports give ample evidence that India’s nuclear programme is directly benefiting from weak global monitoring and verification protocols. There is a persistent gap in theory and practice of these monitoring and verification protocols as countries like India, which is a non-signatory to the NPT, get the benefit of vague mechanisms. Subsequently, Indian nuclear trade for its civilian nuclear programme ends up in its military and unsafeguarded nuclear programme.There is need of greater involvement from the IAEA and other international bodies to monitor and verify India’s nuclear cooperation with the countries which are part of the broader NSG cartel. This is the only way forward to stop India’s systematic nuclear proliferation networkIndia’s nuclear programme poses a significant threat to regional and global security, and the global nuclear cooperation that ends up in Indian military programme equally threatens the credibility of global non-proliferation regimes. Under the umbrella of 123 Agreement, Indian domestic nuclear reserves have already been diverted to its weapons development programme. It will significantly boost India’s weapons capability. It also means, international nuclear cooperation with India, directly contributes to the Indian military programme. Such a drastic scenario has full potential to lead South Asia towards an unending nuclear arms race.Reports further offer a bleak picture of Indian nuclear cooperation with NSG member states. One states, “Indian companies that exhibit risk of supplying unsafeguarded facilities tend to procure directly from NSG member states. Ninety-two per cent of shipments to Indian companies that have procured for two or more Indian unsafeguarded facilities originated from companies in NSG member states. This may reflect the impact of India’s NSG waiver and the general assessment of lower due diligence risk.”Nuclear policy experts in New Delhi have strongly been proposing the global nuclear mainstreaming of India’s nuclear programme, and that too without India’s legal integration in the nuclear non-proliferation regime. For that, Indian lobbies have long been trying to influence global norms just to provide India a safe entry into the global mainstream. Unfortunately, a significant relaxation has been made to the global regimes only to accommodate Indian aspirations. However, such practices have drastically affected the efficacy of the global non-proliferation regime. The India-centric accommodation has also been the bone of contention among the legitimate members of NSG, which have followed legal as well as institutional procedures to become part of the global nuclear regime, whereas India wants to have access to the global market without following the legal procedures.These reports should warn the international community that India has not been clear about its nuclear trade and transactions. The supply chain of its nuclear material, which should have been solely directed to its peaceful nuclear programme, ends up in its unsafeguarded nuclear programme which is directly contributing to its weapons development. If not restricted at this point of time, India will likely to continue its efforts to grow and modernize its nuclear programme at the cost of regional stability.It has become the need of hour to identify, monitor and disrupt India’s illicit nuclear proliferation network which has been indirectly facilitated by the NSG waiver. Indian companies remain active and continue to procure nuclear dual-use goods from foreign firms for potential use in its unsafeguarded nuclear facilities or nuclear weapons programme. There is need of greater involvement from the IAEA and other international bodies to monitor and verify India’s nuclear cooperation with the countries which are part of the broader NSG cartel. This is the only way forward to stop India’s systematic nuclear proliferation network.Haris AkmalHaris Akmal is a freelance columnist"
Web Desk,India and the illicit nuclear trade,2020-06-20,"India is using the NSG waiver to advance its weapons programmeFor more than a decade, India has intensified its efforts to become a de jure member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), a global nuclear cartel, which was established in response to India’s nuclear test in 1974. The US-India nuclear deal of 2008 has already enabled India to gain access to the global nuclear market and allowed it to import uranium and other nuclear material for its civilian nuclear power plants. As a result of its persistent efforts, India has become a de-facto NSG member– the only nuclear weapon state with most of its facilities outside the IAEA safeguards and that has access to the global nuclear market without fulfilling the basic prerequisites. A number of countries including Pakistan have raised serious concerns over the US exceptionalism towards India and warned the global community that India can divert nuclear material for its military purposes. The open-source reports on India’s nuclear technology procurement network have vindicated these countries’ concerns. There are several Indian companies which are engaged in illicit nuclear procurement.As per these reports, “India relies on private contractors to procure goods for use in unsafeguarded nuclear facilities, which are not subject to IAEA verification. These contractors import primarily from a small group of countries, including Germany, China, and the United States— all NSG member states.” It also revealed that there are 86 companies that contracted with two or more unsafeguarded nuclear facilities in India. The top origin countries for these shipments are members of the NSG. It shows that India has long been using its de facto nuclear-power status to acquire nuclear technology and resources for its military as well as unsafeguarded nuclear facilities. For a long period of time, India has refused to bring those civilian unsafeguarded nuclear power plants under the IAEA safeguards. It has not provided a logical explanation to the IAEA for not safeguarding civilian unsafeguarded power plants.There is need of greater involvement from the IAEA and other international bodies to monitor and verify India’s nuclear cooperation with the countries which are part of the broader NSG cartel. This is the only way forward to stop India’s systematic nuclear proliferation networkThe new reports give ample evidence that India’s nuclear programme is directly benefiting from weak global monitoring and verification protocols. There is a persistent gap in theory and practice of these monitoring and verification protocols as countries like India, which is a non-signatory to the NPT, get the benefit of vague mechanisms. Subsequently, Indian nuclear trade for its civilian nuclear programme ends up in its military and unsafeguarded nuclear programme.India’s nuclear programme poses a significant threat to regional and global security, and the global nuclear cooperation that ends up in Indian military programme equally threatens the credibility of global non-proliferation regimes. Under the umbrella of 123 Agreement, Indian domestic nuclear reserves have already been diverted to its weapons development programme. It will significantly boost India’s weapons capability. It also means, international nuclear cooperation with India, directly contributes to the Indian military programme. Such a drastic scenario has full potential to lead South Asia towards an unending nuclear arms race.Reports further offer a bleak picture of Indian nuclear cooperation with NSG member states. One states, “Indian companies that exhibit risk of supplying unsafeguarded facilities tend to procure directly from NSG member states. Ninety-two per cent of shipments to Indian companies that have procured for two or more Indian unsafeguarded facilities originated from companies in NSG member states. This may reflect the impact of India’s NSG waiver and the general assessment of lower due diligence risk.”Nuclear policy experts in New Delhi have strongly been proposing the global nuclear mainstreaming of India’s nuclear programme, and that too without India’s legal integration in the nuclear non-proliferation regime. For that, Indian lobbies have long been trying to influence global norms just to provide India a safe entry into the global mainstream. Unfortunately, a significant relaxation has been made to the global regimes only to accommodate Indian aspirations. However, such practices have drastically affected the efficacy of the global non-proliferation regime. The India-centric accommodation has also been the bone of contention among the legitimate members of NSG, which have followed legal as well as institutional procedures to become part of the global nuclear regime, whereas India wants to have access to the global market without following the legal procedures.These reports should warn the international community that India has not been clear about its nuclear trade and transactions. The supply chain of its nuclear material, which should have been solely directed to its peaceful nuclear programme, ends up in its unsafeguarded nuclear programme which is directly contributing to its weapons development. If not restricted at this point of time, India will likely to continue its efforts to grow and modernize its nuclear programme at the cost of regional stability.It has become the need of hour to identify, monitor and disrupt India’s illicit nuclear proliferation network which has been indirectly facilitated by the NSG waiver. Indian companies remain active and continue to procure nuclear dual-use goods from foreign firms for potential use in its unsafeguarded nuclear facilities or nuclear weapons programme. There is need of greater involvement from the IAEA and other international bodies to monitor and verify India’s nuclear cooperation with the countries which are part of the broader NSG cartel. This is the only way forward to stop India’s systematic nuclear proliferation network."
Qudssia Akhlaque,Humanity is renegotiating life,2020-06-20,"Predictability, pace & prioritiesIt is getting weirder by the day. Mankind is being virtually held hostage by a contagion. Life is now largely dictated by the fast-changing coronavirus pandemic statistics. It hit the world like a storm early this year, literally turning it upside down with major disruptions globally. Within a matter of weeks it rendered all major powers and people glorying in arrogance and conceit abjectly helpless. As if some divine spell cast to humble humanity!Until the coronavirus surfaced one thought the 9/11 terror attacks in the United States had changed the world. However, almost two decades later the invisible microbe of covid-19 has shaken all economies out of their dividends, bringing down consumerism like the twin towers of New York.A paradigm shift has already begun to come to the fore, a new world order as it were. As a friend aptly put it: we have been slapped onto the future. Onto the brink of the unknown.After initial shock, disbelief and denial, people are now fast losing patience with the unseen and ever-lurking coronavirus. Panic, despair, dismay and depression are now beginning to set in as hopes of a vaccine to terminate covid-19 begin to fade and uncertainly about the pandemic’s end looms. Constrained by the constant threat of this unpredictable beast of a disease, humanity is renegotiating life, its predictability, pace and priorities. A particularly tough time for all the youth, who had planned their future in an imagined world far removed from the reality.Those who believed that the coronavirus would just disappear are now beginning to surrender to this monster although with a heavy heart. The initial resistance is now turning into resignation. Covid-19 will change many colours as it continues to spread across the globe. Let’s hope it reshapes our lives for the better and make us more sensitive and responsive to the needs of fellow human beings.We have been shifting gears with a soaring number of confirmed cases and deaths caused by this disease. At the outset it was declared an epidemic, then a pandemic and finally upgraded to an endemic. This means it is not going to go away any time soon as most of humanity had hoped earlier. The World Health Organization has already forewarned that covid-19 “may never go away.” A group of Harvard University disease researchers said earlier in the week that the world might need to practice social distancing through 2022 to prevent covid-19 from surging anew. A long haul!So, where do we go from here?Clearly, we cannot bank on our imagination or available information to predict what the future holds. That, it appears, is humanity’s only takeaway from Coronavirus so far. Thus: the need to make major adjustments to our personal and professional lives to our respective ends! We are all creatures of habit and with time we will make structural adjustments to our lives as there is no other option. Consider it like an unpopular IMF structural adjustment programme that has been imposed on countries worldwide─ initially resisted but eventually accepted. No challenge comes without an opportunity. It opens doors to new possibilities─ or closes some to force introspection and reform at both the individual and collective level.For now, this demon of the coronavirus is forcing us to revisit our humble and simple beginnings. To realign and become more self-reliant. Reconnect to our soul and heed the inner voice. Those with a spiritual insight see it as a divine intervention to reverse human transgression on many counts. A reminder that many generations in ancient times have been destroyed due to such transgressions. Man’s ingratitude for countless blessings is one big reason. Perhaps this is essentially to draw us back to core values of humanity: forbearance, compassion, kindness, empathy, humility, peace, mutual respect, love and social justice. To restore respect for human dignity and moral strength. Most importantly, to be conscious of God, give purifying dues, and thus be graced with God’s mercy of healing. That ultimately all protective power rests with God alone. The realization gradually sinking in is that there is more in less, and in less there is more peace. That accumulation and materialism add to the burden of existence and make our lives more complicated and tedious. Contentment is liberating and complaining is constraining just as it is draining.Till now life has been a race against time, and now suddenly people have plenty of time to kill! Best utilized by reading books that have been collecting dust on shelves, meditating, reflecting and discovering our inner strengths. And building on these strengths. This novel virus has altered the pace of life and the nature of the workspace drastically. A key question then is how to stay connected, and find acceptance in our new normal. As social distancing is being embraced, we are seeing cultural shifts to zoom workspaces and google classroom for online classes. More cost-effective as it saves the time and money that we were taxed with every day by commutes and travels. For creative minds, new media and digital landscapes have opened up new ways of being productive at (or away from) the workplace. The doors of arts and culture are now open to all interested beyond borders. Earlier such participation was constrained by physical mobility. From a transnational aspect, the recent online film festival in Brooklyn could be accessed by all who had laptops and Internet facility.In this digital age the Internet has kept connectivity alive and kicking, saving the world from being pushed into complete isolation. The shrinking public space due to the Coronavirus has been effectively substituted by the virtual platform. And for this summer those who had planned holidays thousands of miles away from their homeland can now discover the joys of exploring the beauty and diversity of their own land.On a lighter note (if there can be one in the midst of all the gloom), Coronavirus has emerged as a ‘huge relief package’ for many of those who don’t fancy socializing and have had enough of PR, social networking and socializing. No pressure or social anxiety anymore! For now, there is respite from the hypocrisy of indulging in fake smiles, half-hearted handshakes and embracing folks that you wish were on some other planet! Surely the coronavirus scare will keep them all at bay! While many still yearn for social interaction, others are content staying home and relish solitude.Those who believed that the coronavirus would just disappear are now beginning to surrender to this monster although with a heavy heart. The initial resistance is now turning into resignation. Covid-19 will change many colours as it continues to spread across the globe. Let’s hope it reshapes our lives for the better and make us more sensitive and responsive to the needs of fellow human beings.The famous ‘Seven Advice of Rumi’ says it all beautifully:"
M A Niazi,Not quite a corona budget,2020-06-18,"Did the pandemic change anything?AT PENPOINTIt was one of the paradoxes of the 2020-2021 Budget that the man responsible for it, PM’s Finance Adviser Dr Hafeez Sheikh, did not seem to believe the revenue collection figure of Rs 4.91 trillion would be met. At the traditional post-Budget press conference, he said the provinces were free to decide whether or not to follow the revenue collection figure in their own Budgets, depending on how much they adjusted for previous collection history. What he left implied was that the collection history of the FBR should determine how much the federal government was to expect from the Federal Board of Revenue.That threw into sharp relief the fact that the provinces depend on the ability of the centre to collect taxes for their own financing. The federal divisible pool is allocated to the various governments according to the National Finance Commission Award currently in force, but the actual money paid to the provinces, which is done every month, depends on how much the FBR has actually collected. The doubt Dr Sheikh expressed is justified, for the FBR collects less than it promises. Interestingly, the IMF bases its own calculations on this figure, in making its recommendations for the Budget.In the financial year just ending, the FBR was unable to achieve its original target of Rs 5.5 trillion, while the covid-19 pandemic had worsened the position. Even before it had started it, the target had had to be revised downwards. This had an unfortunate effect on provincial finances, which found themselves squeezed at the very time they were coming under increasing pressure from the pandemic, as they were the ones that had to find the resources to fund the front lines of the fight against covid-19. At the same time, the provincial governments found that they were paying for the ‘cleverness’ of the past, which had found its expression in not filling vacancies of medical and paramedical staff. That the staff which had been employed had a number of service-related grievances is another matter, but this too was, and still is, a hurdle for the provincial governments.The PTI was elected as a harbinger of change, but its budgets have not shown any commitment to its core tenet, that corruption was preventing economic progress. Perhaps it could be argued that the veconomy had suffered a major blow because of the pandemic, but that should have meant renewed efforts against corruption. However, that was not to be seen in the 2020-2021 BudgetHowever, it was also noticeable that the Budget did not include any new-found emphasis on health. This was not entirely because health is a provincial subject, and the major thrust on health would come in the provincial budgets. The federal government is responsible for quarantine administration (which is a concomitant of its responsibility to regulate foreign relations and thus all ports), as well as for transmission of funds obtained from abroad (provinces are not allowed to obtain aid directly from abroad, though the projects that are planned can be executed at the provincial level). These are thus areas that should have been reflected in the federal Budget.Another area of interest is the defence budget. Under normal circumstances, there would be nothing exceptional about the defence budget, and the increase of Rs 60 billion over the revised estimates would be a virtual freeze. But as the original budget was Rs 1.15 trillion, and the budget this year was Rs 1.29 trillion, it was relatively clear that the defence budget would be increased if the need was felt.Whether or not the need is felt would depend on India. India’s budget, announced in February, came before covid-19 had been formally declared a pandemic, and before any lockdown had been announced for India. It included INR 3.375 trillion for defence. Like Pakistan, India has held back on funds for healthcare and education to spend on its armed forces.From one point of view, it would seem that despite the covid-19 pandemic, there are serious security threats to Pakistan. India has also recently had a confrontation with China in Ladakh, followed by a second. While China does not face as emotive a dispute with India as Pakistan does over Kashmir, none the less, its border problems started by the demarcation of the boundary between India and China long before Partition in 1947, and even before the fall of the Chinese Empire in in 1911.The Indo-Chinese confrontation occurred at a place where Pakistan was bound to be interested. Pakistan has also had direct confrontations along the Line of Control in Kashmir in the shape of artillery duels. The Pakistan government cannot rule out the possibility of getting involved in a Sino-Indian conflict.Such a conflict would see Pakistan finding itself pitted against the USA, which would prefer to take the side of the country it has been allying itself to even more closely for a long time. As it has been building India up to act as a counterweight to China, it would have to back it. Pakistan would have to choose at that point between Chinese and US friendship. The other parties involved are so large, that Pakistan will not be able to play a mediatory role. One side is bound to see even the attempt as an example of Pakistan pussyfooting to avoid choosing sides.Is the tension not balanced out by the pandemic? The basic problem is one of trusting the rationality of the other. A war at this point should be unthinkable. Unfortunately, the Indian leadership has not shown much rationality recently. Also, not only has Donald Trump done things which have made some question his rationality, but he has shown Indians that he can ignore their own acts of irrationality, such as when he paid no attention to the anti-Muslim riots occurring in New Delhi while he was visiting it. That the BJP saw fit to allow that riot to proceed showed how visceral is its dislike of Muslims, and thus of Pakistan. Modi also learned from his election victory in 2019 that war scares against Pakistan win votes.Another destabilising factor may be the nature of the Pakistani regime. In both 1965 and 1971, there was a military regime in Pakistan. While the current government is civilian, the military has a significant say in matters of foreign policy, especially India. Under those circumstances, the possibility of a conflict exists. However, it should not be thought that the Pakistani military is particularly bellicose. Any conflict would be imposed by the needs of the BJP.Trump is the unpredictable factor. He is made even more unpredictable by the fact that he faces an election in November, and not only has to deal with the covid-19 pandemic, but has got a major bout of race riots on his hands. A war might actually help his re-election prospects, as the American public tends to rally around the incumbent when there is a conflict. The only thing to hold him back might be the fact that incumbents were harmed by the Vietnam War.The PTI was elected as a harbinger of change, but its budgets have not shown any commitment to its core tenet, that corruption was preventing economic progress. Perhaps it could be argued that the veconomy had suffered a major blow because of the pandemic, but that should have meant renewed efforts against corruption. However, that was not to be seen in the 2020-2021 Budget."
Web Desk,#Blacklivesmatter in the South Asian context,2020-06-18,"How South Asians perpetrate discrimination against dark skinBy: Asif SaadThe coronavirus pandemic continues but the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis by a police officer brought the world’s attention to something perhaps even more damaging and catastrophic in the long term than covid-19– the racial inequality pandemic.The policeman has been dismissed from service and charged with manslaughter. But the way he ended a life– the nonchalant way he kneeled, hands in his pockets, on the prone, handcuffed George Floyd’s neck for 8 minutes and 46 seconds– speaks to an attitude that seeing the Black man as not quite an equal human being.This is not a new phenomenon. George Floyd’s death is one event in a process that dates back centuries. It is rooted in the times of white slave traders who captured and sold African Americans, seeing them as less than human.You don’t have to be a fan of the legendary boxer Muhammad Ali to appreciate his old interview clip raising, with wit and intelligence, basic questions about race. Such as why do paintings always depict Jesus and the angels as White? Or why Tarzan, the king of the jungle is white and why is chocolate cake called “devil’s” cake!The murder of George Floyd has catalyzed #blacklivesmatter processions around the world, making me think about how the issue applies to our society in South Asia. The Western world is taking up the cause of discrimination mainly against the African-American race and police brutality against members of this race and the potential legal reform to resolve the issue.When people in the region empathize with movements such as #blacklivesmatter, it may be worthwhile to look inwards self-critically, and ask themselves honestly what skin colour means to them. The other thing to do and what will have more impact is to try to change these ways wherever we observe them, particularly within our own circumstances; our homes, offices, family and friendsHowever, in the desi context this is a social rather than a legal issue, and hence more widespread and damaging for society. Anyone born with a dark skin will most likely be poor and disenfranchised. Throughout their childhood, looked down upon and teased as Kalu or Kali (black, male or female). In other words, an equal citizen in name only. In reality, the Indian subcontinent is far worse in terms of discrimination against dark skin than the USA or other places in the world.An excellent video by the Indian-American standup comedian Hassan Minhaj being circulated on social media and Whatsapp groups hits home as he underscores the sad reality in the Indian subcontinent. He says “it’s bad to be black in desi culture” and that “we call black people kala– not in a good way”!On the face of it, the complexion issue seems to be one that affects women more particularly in South Asia where being gori (fair) enhances marriage prospects. The social structure around marriage peddles the dream of being ‘white’ for girls to attract a Prince Charming.Skin whitening face creams form the largest category of complexion-enhancing beauty products in the region, marketed by multinational as well as local companies. Over the years, as sales have risen, the unique selling proposition of skin whitening products, disgustingly remains the premise, that fairness of skin is what makes a person attractive.However, the complexion issue is no longer a women’s issue. In recent years, with the rise of the ‘metrosexual male’, skin-whitening creams for men have also unabashedly entered the market, endorsed by cricket heroes like Shahid Afridi.The popularity of skin-whitening creams is just the tip of the iceberg in a much wider issue that permeates across society and is very much a part of our social fabric. Take a sample across any city or locality even just within this land of the pure and you will find people with dark skins doing the most menial jobs. There are hardly any dark-skinned business executives or government servants or army generals or even doctors and engineers, compared to the number of dark-skinned cleaners, laborers, and drivers.There is a historical stigma from our colonial past when united India was ruled by the British for nearly two centuries, and before that by light-skinned invaders coming from Central Asia, Persia or Afghanistan.It may also go deeper than that with the caste system historically defining roles according to skin color─ the higher the caste, the lighter skin you would be. In this largely agricultural society, menial laborers work outdoors under the blazing sun. Only those belonging to the upper classes can afford to stay indoors, protecting their skin from the harsh weather.Being fair skinned therefore reflects an economic advantage, with society divided into white and black, that is, the haves and the have-nots.Whatever the reason, the issue is so deep-rooted in our society that there is no real chance of the Subcontinent finding a way out. There are more chances of success of #blacklivesmatter demands in USA since they are asking for specific changes in the law. I am not sure how the malaise in South Asia can be addressed through legislation.So when people in the region empathize with movements such as #blacklivesmatter, it may be worthwhile to look inwards self-critically, and ask themselves honestly what skin colour means to them. The other thing to do and what will have more impact is to try to change these ways wherever we observe them, particularly within our own circumstances; our homes, offices, family and friends. In these times of the pandemic, when we have time to reflect, perhaps this could be the time for some new thinking to bring about social change. This is how the transformation begins."
Amjed Jaaved,Why is India at daggers drawn with its neighbours?,2020-06-18,"Basis of India’s foreign policy: Might is rightA simple explanation of India’s recent faceoffs with neighbours is well epitomized by the peasant saying “jiski lathi, uski bhains” (he who has the stick, has the buffalo). But, the wisdom muffled in the saying (‘might is right’) is a cornerstone of India’s foreign policy. If you want a highfalutin way of saying the same thing, turn to the Greek sage, Thucydides: “The strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must.” India wants to eat up its neighbours like it devoured disputed Kashmir, Junagadh, and Hyderabad.India’s disputes with its neighbours, being simple, have simple solutions. But, India’s coercive policy and lack of political will delay the solution.India’s precocious former foreign secretary tells how India’s attitude delayed solution of disputes. The Indian government unilaterally released new maps of disputed Jammu and Kashmir State. These maps show the disputed state as converted into an Indian `union territory’. The UT includes even Azad Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan.India presumed Pakistan, like other peripheral states, was too weak to do tit for tat. The Indian attitude reflected the Kautilyan template: bheda (sowing seeds of discord) to achieve yana (victory) through danda (force).Kautilya believed that `all neighbouring countries were actual or potential enemies’. A corollary to his advice was fostering friendly relations with non-neighboring powerful countries. In line with the Kautliyan dictum, India’s former foreign-secretary Shyam Saran advised: `India must seek to align with other powerful states to countervail the main adversary [Pakistan].This would mean closer relations with the USA, Japan, Australia, Indonesia, and Vietnam, all of which share India’s concern over China’s unilateral assertions of power in Asia’ (How India Sees the World: Kautilya to the 21st Century).The USA backed India’s opposition to China’s One Belt One Road (OBOR) initiative. Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asia Alice Wells said on November 22 at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars, “We share India’s concerns over projects that don’t have any economic basis and that lead to a country ceding sovereignty.”After Kashmir, India annexed Nepalese territory in the maps. In blatant violation of mutual treaties, India annexed Kalapani area on the India-Nepal border. In a press release, Nepal’s government termed the “unilateral action” as “unacceptable”. Nepal’s legislature enacted a clarification to affirm its sovereignty over Kalapani. However, India has already brazenly occupied over 14,000 hectares (140 km2) Nepalese territory of Susta in Tribenisusta, Lumbini Zone, near Nichlaul, UP.China also feared internationalization of Aksai Chin by India. The `annexation’ of disputed Kashmir provided it with an opportunity to intrude into the disputed area. China has misgivings about the rising wave of Hindutva and gung-ho political and military leaders in India. China is aware of India’s preparation for fighting a two-front warSaran was however outspoken about how India created or delayed solution of border disputes. For instance, he says India itself created the Siachen problem. He reminisces, “In 1970s, US maps began to show 23,000 km of Siachen area under Pakistan’s control. Thereupon, `Indian forces were sent to occupy the glacier in a pre-emptive strike, named Operation Meghdoot. Pakistani attempts to dislodge them did not succeed. But they did manage to occupy and fortify the lower reaches.”He recalls how Siachen Glacier and Sir Creek agreements could not fructify because of foot dragging. He says ‘NN Vohra, who was the defence secretary at the time, confirmed in a newspaper interview that an agreement on Siachen had been reached. At the last moment, however, a political decision was taken by the Narasimha Rao government to defer its signing to the next round of talks scheduled for January the following year. But, this did not happen…My defence of the deal became a voice in the wilderness’.Similarly, demarcation of Sir Creek maritime boundary was unnecessarily delayed. Saran says ‘If we accepted the Pakistani alignment, with the east bank of the creek as the boundary, then Pakistan would get only 40 per cent of the triangle. If our alignment according to the Thalweg principle was accepted, Pakistan would get 60 per cent. There was a keen interest in Pakistan to follow this approach but we were unable to explore this further when the Siachen deal fell through. Pakistan was no longer interested in a stand-alone Sir Creek agreement’.To him `Kashmir dispute was almost settled but delayed by India’. In his memoirs In The Line Of Fire, President Pervez Musharraf proposed ‘a personal solution of the Kashmir issue’. This solution, in essence, envisioned self-rule in demilitarised regions of Kashmir under a joint-management mechanism. The solution pre-supposed reciprocal flexibility. The out-of-box Musharraf Kashmir solution was in fact a regurgitation of India’s former foreign secretary Jagat S. Mehta’s proposals. Mehta understood a plebiscite was the real solution. But, India was not willing to talk about it. So, he spelled out ‘requirements prelusive to a solution’. He presented his ideas in his article, ‘Resolving Kashmir in the International Context of the 1990s’. Some points of Mehta’s quasi-solution are: (a) Conversion of the LoC into “a soft border permitting free movement and facilitating free exchanges…” (b) Immediate demilitarisation of the LoC to a depth of five to 10 miles with agreed methods of verifying compliance (c) ) Final settlement of the dispute between India and Pakistan can be suspended (kept in a ‘cold freeze’) for an agreed period.Raj Mohan elucidates India’s ambition, in terms of Kautiliya’s mandala, (inter-relationships) to emerge as South Asian hegemon in following words: ‘India’s grand strategy divides the world into three concentric circles. In the first, which encompasses the immediate neighbourhood, India has sought primacy and a veto over actions of outside powers. In the second which encompasses the so-called extended neighborhood, stretching across Asia and Indian Ocean littoral, India has sought to balance other powers and prevent them from undercutting its interests. In the third which includes the entire global stage, India has tried to take its place as one of the great powers, a key player in international peace and security. (C. Raja Mohan, India and the Balance of Power, Foreign Affairs, July-August 2006).Henry Kissinger views Indian ambitions in the following words: ‘Just as the early American leaders developed the Monroe Doctrine concept for America’s special role in the Western Hemisphere, so India has established in practice a special positioning of the Indian Ocean region between East Indies and the horn of Africa. Like Britain with respect to Europe in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, India strives to prevent the emergence of a dominant power in this vast portion of the globe. Just as early American leaders did not seek approval of the countries of the Western Hemisphere with respect to the Monroe Doctrine, so Indian in the region of its special strategic interests conducts its policy on the basis of its own definition of a South Asian order’ (Henry Kissinger, World Order, 2014).Zbigniew Brzeszinsky takes note of India’s ambition to rival China thus: ‘Indian strategies speak openly of greater India exercising a dominant position in an area ranging from Iran to Thailand. India is also position itself to control the Indian Ocean militarily, its naval and air power programs point clearly in that direction as do politically guided efforts to establish for Indi strong positions, with geostrategic implications in adjoining Bangladesh and Burma (Zbigniew Brzeszinsky, Strategic Vision: America and the Crisis of Global Power).On May 5, India and China clashed near the Pangong Tso Lake in Ladakh. The skirmish took place because China objected to Indian military patrols in the area.The two countries have differing perceptions of the Line of Actual Control. On May 9, at an altitude of 15,000 feet, in the Naku La region near Tibet, soldiers from both sides used fisticuffs and threw stones at each other. No arms were used but several dozen soldiers were injured.Following talks, both countries pulled back their troops from the Galwan Valley. But, India alleges that China is yet to pull back from Pangong Tso. The recent clashes are thus art of a atternSeveral factors account for China’s tit-for- tat in Ladakh. China was fearful of India’s ambition to serve as a US proxy and emerge as a South Asian hegemon. China was annoyed at India’s opposition to the BRI, and enthusiasm for the US-led Quad. China had to act to stop the unruly India.China appeared desperate to control the lake at Lukung to conduct a future three-pronged strategy of attacking from Sirijap in the north, Chuchul in the south and through the lake water from the middle.China also feared internationalization of Aksai Chin by India. The `annexation’ of disputed Kashmir provided it with an opportunity to intrude into the disputed area. China has misgivings about the rising wave of Hindutva and gung-ho political and military leaders in India. China is aware of India’s preparation for fighting a two-front war.Overall, the pattern shows China’s desire to take over, in future, the lake at Lukung through a three-pronged strategy of attacking from Sirijap in the north, Chuchul in the south and through the lake water from the middle. This is the key chokepoint from where the Chinese can cut off Indian access to the entire flank of Chip Chap plains, Aksai Chin in the east and Shayok Valley to the north, which means that Indian control is pushed to the west of the Shyok river and south of the Indus river, forcing India to accept both rivers as natural boundaries. And once China gets control of the southern side of the Karakoram it can easily approach Siachen Glacier from the Depsang corridor and meet at Tashkurgan junction from where the CPEC crosses into Gilgit-Baltistan.That would be disastrous for Indian defence, leaving the strategic Nubra vulnerable, possibly impacting even India’s hold over Siachen. China’s access to Changla-pass through Lukung and Tangtse would threaten the entire Indus Valley. It is quite possible that China is eyeing the waters of the Shyok, Galwan and Chang-Chenmo rivers, to divert them to the arid Aksai Chin and its Ali region."
Dr Farid A Malik,Tribute to a technologist,2020-06-17,"Engr Masood Hasan always pushed for scientific research to develop indigenous technologiesOn June 11, Engr Masood Hasan, a leading technologist of the country and the father of chemical engineering (Chem-1) of Pakistan, passed away after a glorious innings spread over 95 years. After completing his masters in Industrial Chemistry from the Punjab University, he went on to study Chemical Engineering at the Case Western Reserve University USA from where he received an MS Degree in 1948. He was hired by Unilever and attended their executive management programme in UK. There was no looking back; the ‘Technologist’ had been launched. He started local manufacturing of several Unilever products that included Dalda Banaspati as well. From there he moved to Wazir Ali Industries for the launch of Tullo Banaspati and Treet Soap. He then moved back to Lahore in the 196s where he launched a consulting firm by the name of EWP Consultants which played a key role in bringing the first-generation computer to Pakistan. Later he founded United Consultants before being appointed Federal Secretary Defence Production by the Bhutto regime. He was not alone; with him, several technocrats were inducted through lateral entry into senior administrative positions.The Defence Production sector was developed under his vision and leadership during the decade of the 197s. Pakistan Aeronautical Complex Kamra, Heavy Industries Taxila, expansion of Pakistan Ordinance Factories, reorganization of SUPARCO and several other smaller projects were started during that period. His maternal uncle Hamid Ghani, who was Chief Engineer in Pakistan Railways at the time of Partition, was appointed Project Manager to build POF Wah in 1953. After completing the ordnance factory, he was sent to build the Karachi Shipyard. Between the two, half of Pakistan’s basic industrialization took place. They remain unsung heroes of the country as they neither sought publicity nor self-projection. While Ghani Sahib is buried in Karachi, Hasan Sahib chose Lahore.He served briefly with the Zia regime and returned to his home town to launch another consulting firm by the name of EMMAY Associates where he worked till his retirement about ten years ago. During this period the Doon School Boys got together to build Chand Bagh School on the Muridke-Sheikhupura link road on the pattern of their founding institution. It is a not-for-profit residential school where students are taught social responsibilities to keep their campus and surrounding localities clean. It is the Doon School version of Pakistan. Lt. Gen (R) Ghulam Jillani Khan and Hasan Sahib, both Doon School alumni, led this project from the front with a vision to develop university-level education at the same location. With a campus spread over 190 acres it will perhaps one day emerge as an Education City.He strongly advocated the need of developing and applying appropriate technologies leading to socio-economic development. His definition of technology was simple,” A tool to solve problems all sorts”. According to him there was a time when people approached philosophers for answers now technology has taken over that role for which qualified Technologists are needed.In 2017 he was invited to speak at the annual Dr Khalifa Abdul Hakim Lecture Series where he delivered a very powerful speech on ‘Technology and Development’. He strongly advocated the need of developing and applying appropriate technologies leading to socio-economic development. His definition of technology was simple,” A tool to solve problems all sorts”. According to him there was a time when people approached philosophers for answers, now technology has taken over that role, for which qualified technologists are needed. Scientific research world over has resulted in technological advancement through a well-developed framework and linkage between academia and industry. This approach has not been adopted by the Islamic Ummah. Organizations like COMSTECH (Commission for Science and Technology for OIC) remains ineffective due to inappropriate leadership, vision and guidance. In the decade of the 1970s, the National Commission for Science and Technology, which reported directly to the Prime Minister, was established to foster technological growth but it remains dormant due to bureaucratic control. Technical ministries like Science and Technology should be led by technocrats rather than bureaucrats.Unfortunately, in the land of the pure the importance of technology is grossly misunderstood and overlooked. Technology is the application of science to produce products and facilitate human effort. Technology takes over where science reaches its limit. What works in the laboratory under controlled conditions has to be mass produced by understanding and application of technology. While science consumes, technology produces. I had the opportunity of working on his team for over a decade before taking on the Chairmanship of the Pakistan Science Foundation. His parting words were, “One can achieve a lot if one does not seek credit or personal benefits”. That was the generation that laid the foundations of the new land.Together we worked on projects of national importance. In the the 1990s the Saindak Copper and Gold project had started. Due to lack of large-scale commercial mining experience in the country, the venture was in trouble from day one. It was my first opening in the land of the pure. While we did our best to ensure complete transfer of technology together with building a trained work force, no one within the organization or the federal ministry was interested. It seemed everyone had their own agenda to seek personal benefits. Despite warnings the entire project was handed over to the Chinese contractor, who have been mining there for the last about 20 years and now seek extension to dig out the remaining copper, gold and silver. Had the transfer of technology taken place at that time we would have been in a position to develop the Reko Diq project ourselves instead of the big mess that we face today. He insisted on Administrative Accountability instead of judicial that we have today. He propagated the development of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) as a first step towards accountability. He always quoted Article 212 of the constitution of 1972 that called for the establishment of Administrative Courts for this purpose. In the 1973 version the idea was dropped and it is time to revisit this approach as there is dichotomy between the NAB laws and the Common Law that our courts follow. As Hasan Sahib was a close friend of Ikramullah Niazi, a fellow engineer and father of Imran Khan, he has been briefed about this approach of effective accountability.In the year 2002, together we prepared the first Shadow Budget of the country from the platform of the Lahore Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI). We proposed massive increases in the areas of education and health while balancing the budget. The criticism of the current budget (2020-2021) continues while no one has done any homework to present alternative figures of proposed expenditures. Political parties in the country no longer work for common good of the citizens, instead they have become anchors of status quo. Corona has reset the world economic order; the aftershocks of the pandemic have to be catered for. A lot of planning is required both by the government and the opposition. Small but mandatory items like face masks are out of reach of the daily wage earners. A holistic plan is needed to meet the challenges which is missing on both ends.In March this year we bid farewell to Dr Mubashir Hasan another comrade and outstanding engineer. He died at the age of 98 years. One by one the era of selfless contributors towards common good is coming to an end. A new generation is taking over where self-projection has become the norm. On insistence of the family Hasan Sahib started his biography which is now being reviewed for publication with the proposed title of: ‘ Journey of a Technologist ‘. The purpose is to record his achievements as a guideline for the coming generations of engineers and technologists who will lead the nation in the challenging times that lie ahead. Pakistan needs indigenously developed technologies for its socio-economic growth and development which science alone cannot deliver. Product focused research with appropriate business plans is the way forward. Technologists of the calibre of Engr. Masood Hasan Manto are rare, much like his uncle Saadat Hasan Manto who is revered for his contribution to literature, he will be long revered for his contribution in the development of technology in his native land which he served with his utmost devotion, dedication, honesty and integrity. May his soul rest in peace and his innings for the technological advancement of the motherland guide us in our future endeavours. Pakistan needs Technology to move forward and become an Asian Tiger like China, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, and South Korea our derailment has to come to an end."
Web Desk,Sino-India standoff: A big embarrassment,2020-06-17,"India has badly miscalculated by changing Jammu and Kashmir’s statusBy: Ehtisham AmerThe Chinese board game Xiangqi is not only a game but a part of the larger Chinese culture. It was considered an essential part of the training of men who aspire to rise to commanding heights in various walks of life. Kings, generals, men of letters, and high priests were expected to be well versed in this game. Xiangqi was considered to cultivate virtues like patience, forethought, resolve, and long-term planning. To a bystander, the game may lack action and thrill but to the players and to an ordinary Chinese, this is the way of life in China. Every action must be thought through in every possible detail, though trivial, to avoid changing minds midway or face some embarrassment as a result. This habit of overthinking is visible in the actions of individuals and state functionaries in every day Chinese working.Cultural habits influence our actions. The Chinese thus, as a matter of habit and compulsion, take a long time to react, but do so in such well thought-out manner that it is hard to find deficiencies in their conduct of statecraft. Take the example of the Indian unilateral and illegal action of 5 August. India repealed Article 370 of its Constitution and divided the Jammu and Kashmir state into the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. It was hailed as a monumental step by the Indian right-wing and extremist parties of various hues. Moderate Indians were shocked and expressed their outrage in various ways.BJP stalwarts made provocative statements of intent to take back Pakistan administered Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan by force, if necessary. Similar claims were made about the Chinese administered Aksai Chin.There is always a difference between addressing domestic audiences and handling a tricky trilateral issue of sovereignty over a piece of land. Amit Shah, the Indian firebrand and Home Minister, made an incorrect assessment of the situation which was to cause India the embarrassment of the century less than a year later.China was put on the defensive for the first time when India compared the occupation of Aksai Chin with that of Azad Kashmir. This roused China’s fears of India falling too heavily in the US, thus rival, camp. It is no coincidence that in the immediate aftermath of the August 5 action, India signed bilateral agreements with all three member states of the quadrilateral dialogue, adding a military angle to the quad agreement.While the Indians are quick to chest-thumping after small and insignificant gains, the Chinese have displayed their cultural strength in handling intricate and demanding issues. No wonder the Xiangqi game has so aptly been internalized by the Chinese leaders for centuriesIndia’s political leadership is badly drenched in its self-claimed economic miracle and has started to punch far above its strategic weight. India has always had the advantage of projecting its soft power through its cinema industry and yoga and herbal medicines. The world’s fondness for Indian Ayurvedic medicines and yoga has been misinterpreted by the Indian strategic thinkers as a substitute for hard power. To give a further boost to self-intoxicating “victories over Kashmir” of the Indian political leadership, the Chinese recorded their routine diplomatic displeasure over the unilateral changing of status. That gave a fillip to the Indian leaders that they had humbled the Chinese dragon and were a force to reckon with internationally.17 June 2020 was the date of election of new non-permanent members to the UN Security Council. India contested for the Asia-Pacific slot unopposed. Election to this body adds to the prestige of any country. For India, nothing could have been more heaven-sent than to sit on this apex world body and resist any meaningful discussion on Kashmir for the next two years. But destiny has its ways to humble humans’ grandstanding exercises.India has fared poorly in managing the coronavirus. Hordes of migrant workers, walking, and dying in road and train accidents, have brought India into the negative focus of world media. The year 2020 began with the anti-CAA protests across India, including Delhi, that too during the visit of Donald Trump. A US president’s visit attracts international media on a large scale and India found itself criticized for abysmal treatment of its minorities.India had perhaps not considered the Chinese cultural factors while wargaming the consequences of changing the status of Kashmir unilaterally. It’s here that the game of Xiangqi becomes relevant. India was about to learn this through the hard way that patience and self-control is a virtue, not a weakness. No Chinese response from August to April made the Indian leadership complacent and they thought they had consigned Kashmir to the dustbin of history. Then came May 2020.The world woke up to the news of Sino-India border skirmishes in the Ladakh region. Similar skirmishes occurred in 2017 in the Doklam area of the Sino-India border but were settled amicably. The Indian leadership was, however, quick to “claim victory” over China. The Chinese did not contest the Indian claims and went about business as usual. May 2020, therefore, was full of surprises for India. This time the Chinese came with larger numbers, better prepared and had dug in with heavy weapons in support.While the Ladakh conflict has displayed an utter nonprofessional approach of the Indian military at the strategic and operational levels, and their failure in guarding their borders, it has also revealed the total bankruptcy of any possible solutions available to India. The Indian Prime Minister has not spoken a word in public about Ladakh in the last six weeks. Its media has received gag orders from the government to avoid coverage of the issue due to its sensitivity. No central leader of the ruling party has spoken of Ladakh and its possible solution. There is a deafening silence in media, government, and intelligentsia forums. The Indian military veterans have warned that there is no possible military solution to this crisis.While the Indian diplomats were busy garnering support for their bid to the UN Security Council seat, destiny was laughing at their impending ignominy. Seat in the Security Council, where the fate of international disputes is decided, is not meant for a country unable to fend off aggression. If you cannot manage your border disputes, how can you be trusted to resolve global issues?The Chinese have moved and occupied areas which are up to China Claim Line, and not the Indian territory. This area is disputed and both sides lay claim to it. The Chinese have advanced in four different areas spread from Ladakh in the west to far eastern border regions. Sources privy to Sino-India talks of 6 June have disclosed rival demands. India demands the status quo ante of April 2020; China demands the status quo before 5 August 2019.While the Indians are quick to chest-thumping after small and insignificant gains, the Chinese have displayed their cultural strength in handling intricate and demanding issues. No wonder the Xiangqi game has so aptly been internalized by the Chinese leaders for centuries.(The writer is security analyst based in Islamabad)"
Sultan M Hali,Six years since launch of Zarb-e-Azb,2020-06-17,"A critical appraisalArmed Forces successfully launched operation Zarb-e-Azb six years earlier to protect ideological and territorial boundaries of Pakistan. Success of this operation guaranteed peace and national integration. Operation Zarb-e-Azb was a joint military offensive conducted by the Pakistan Armed Forces against various militant groups, including the Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, al-Qaeda, Jundullah and the Haqqani network. The operation was launched on 15 June 2014 in North Waziristan along the Pakistan-Afghan border as a renewed effort against militancy in the wake of the 8 June attack on Jinnah International Airport in Karachi, for which the TTP and the IMU claimed responsibility.For the first time, the Pakistani military implemented a military strategy called “Seek, Destroy, Clear, Hold.” The Pakistani military endeavored to seek the target. Once found, it was to be destroyed. When destroyed, the infrastructure, bodies and weapons were cleared and the area was held both during this time and after its completion to ensure post-operation security and infrastructure rebuilding and/or area rehabilitation. The Seek and Destroy component is from the Vietnam War whereas the Clear and Hold component is from the Iraq War. The Pakistani military combined the two doctrines as a single doctrine for the operation to be successful and it worked well to its advantage.The operation has received widespread support from the Pakistani political, defence and civilian sectors. As a consequence, the overall security situation improved and terrorist attacks in Pakistan dropped to a six-year low since 2008. Zarb-e-Azb was followed by Operation Radd-ul-Fasaad which began in February 2017, following a resurgence in terrorist incidents.This was the first time that Pakistan Air Force employed its indigenously developed aerial reconnaissance platform to identify the threat and direct the aerial precision guided munitions to the enemy stronghold and enable ground forces to annihilate them.Hit hard by the combined assault tactics, the militants struck back by a dastardly attack on the Army Public School (APS) at Peshawar on 16 December 2014. The heinous attack took a toll of 142 precious lives including 132 children. The APS attack became a rallying point for the Pakistani nation. Earlier, the government of Mian Nawaz Sharif was keen on resolving the issue of terror attacks with the perpetrators of terrorism and extremism through negotiations. The duality of the miscreants was exposed when during the peace talks, a massive terror attack at Karachi airport took a heavy toll.One and a half years after the start of Zarb-e-Azb, phenomenal successes were achieved, with the last pockets close to the Pakistan-Afghan border being cleared. Terrorist’s backbone broken and structure dismantled. Nexus with sleeper cells largely disrupted. Intelligence based Operations (IBOs) busted remaining sleeper cells. 3,400 terrorists were killed, with 837 hideouts from where they were carrying out terrorist activities destroyed.In the wake of the attack on APS, the nation evolved a National Action Plan (NAP) to tackle the scourge of terrorism. The plan enabled the nation to take the bull of terrorism by its horns and target the root causes of terrorism, including terror financing, hate speech and social deprivation.One and a half years after the start of Zarb-e-Azb, phenomenal successes were achieved, with the last pockets close to the Pakistan-Afghan border being cleared. Terrorist’s backbone broken and structure dismantled. Nexus with sleeper cells largely disrupted. Intelligence based Operations (IBOs) busted remaining sleeper cells. 3,400 terrorists were killed, with 837 hideouts from where they were carrying out terrorist activities destroyed. During the last 18 months over 13,200 Intelligence Based Operations (IBO) carried out across the country in which 183 terrorists were killed, 2,193 arrested. IBOs continue. 488 officers and men of Pakistan Army, Frontier Corps KPK, Baluchistan, Rangers Sindh were killed and 1,914 injured in Operation Zarb-e-Azb.A total of 11 military courts were set up. 142 cases referred to military courts. 55 cases decided, 87 cases in process. 31 terrorists convicted. In July, the Pakistan Army Chief, General Raheel Sharif visited the military’s forward-most positions near the Afghan border in North Waziristan. He was briefed about the progress and future plans for Operation Zarb-e-Azb. Sharif also visited South Waziristan and Wana agencies. It was reported that the Pakistani military had just completed the preliminary preparations for final phase. In the area around Shawal, peaks were cleared.In the aftermath of the operation, as of 14 July 2014, the operation internally displaced about 929,859 people belonging to 80,302 families from North Waziristan. Financial support, relief goods and food packages were being distributed and 59 donation points were established across Pakistan by the army.On 10 July, the Foreign Office of Pakistan said that the rehabilitation of internally displaced persons was an internal matter and reiterated that Pakistan had not requested international assistance. “We have very clear instructions from the prime minister [to not seek external assistance], Pakistan has neither made nor intends to make a request for international assistance. It has been made very clear that all expenditure related to temporarily displaced Pakistanis will be met from our own resources”, Pakistani Foreign Office spokesperson Tasnim Aslam said.However, it was reported that the United States allocated $31 million for IDPs and an additional $9.3 million for health, hygiene, water and sanitation for IDPs and livestock. It was also reported that the United Arab Emirates government allocated $20.5 million in IDP humanitarian aid. In February 2014, the Pakistani Finance Minister told a visiting US Senator Jack Reed that the cost of the operation so far had reached ₨40 billion (US$280 million) and could go as high as ₨130 billion (US$920 million).On 8 December 2014, the military approved the phased repatriation of the IDPs. The Pakistani army chief said the early return of the IDPs was his top priority. According to senior military officials, civilian authorities were directed to plan the return of the IDPs to their homes in areas which have been cleared of terrorists. On 31 March 2015, the repatriation started. On the first day, 219 IDPs belonging to 62 families left Bannu for Spinwam and Shahmeri in North Waziristan. In the first phase till 24 April, about 1,200 families were to return to their homes in Sinwam, Shamiri, Mirali and Bubali areas of NWA.Each family was given ₨ 25,000 (US$180) as cash assistance and ₨ 10,000 (US$71) as transportation expenses at Mirzail. Food ration for six months and non-food items would also be given to each household. For effective disease control, children under five years of age were administered anti-polio vaccines and children under 10 years of age were administered anti-measles vaccines. As of 4 May 2015, only 230 displaced families had returned since the launch of the repatriation programme. “The civil administration can send entire displaced population back to their homes within a month if the area is de-notified as conflict zone,” said an official dealing with IDPs repatriation. According to the official sources, the cut-off date for the return of IDPs was December 2016.The military operation Zarb-e-Azb was late in coming but when it was launched, the miscreants met the full fury of the state backed by the Armed Forces of Pakistan and achieved the desired results although after a great sacrifice of precious lives."
Dr Farid A Malik,Tribute to a Technologist,2020-06-17,"Engr Masood Hasan always pushed for scientific research to develop indigenous technologiesOn June 11,2020 Engr Masood Hasan, a leading technologist of the country and the father of Chemical Engineering (Chem-1) of Pakistan, passed away after a glorious innings spread over 95 years. After completing his masters in Industrial Chemistry from the Punjab University, he went on to study Chemical Engineering at the Case Western Reserve University USA from where he received an MS Degree in 1948. He was hired by Unilever and attended their executive management programme in UK. There was no looking back; the ‘Technologist’ had been launched. He started local manufacturing of several Unilever products that included Dalda Banaspati as well. From there he moved to Wazir Ali Industries for the launch of Tullo Banaspati and Treet Soap. He then moved back to Lahore in the sixties where he launched a consulting firm by the name of EWP Consultants which played a key role in bringing the first-generation computer to Pakistan. Later he founded United Consultants before being appointed Federal Secretary Defence Production by the Bhutto regime. He was not alone; with him, several technocrats were inducted through lateral entry into senior administrative positions.The Defence Production sector was developed under his vision and leadership during the decade of the seventies. Pakistan Aeronautical Complex Kamra, Heavy Industries Taxila, expansion of Pakistan Ordinance Factories, reorganization of SUPARCO and several other smaller projects were started during that period. His maternal uncle Hamid Ghani who was Chief Engineer in Pakistan Railways at the time of partition was appointed Project Manager to build POF Wah in 1953. After completing the ordinance factory, he was sent to build the Karachi Shipyard. Between the two, half of Pakistan’s basic industrialization took place. They remain unsung heroes of the country as they neither sought publicity nor self-projection. While Ghani Sahib is buried in Karachi, Hasan Sahib chose Lahore.He served briefly with the Zia regime and returned to his home town to launch another consulting firm by the name of EMMAY Associates where he worked till his retirement about ten years ago. During this period the Doon School Boys got together to build Chand Bagh School on Muridke Sheikhupura link road on the pattern of their founding institution. It is a not for profit residential school where students are taught social responsibilities to keep their campus and surrounding localities clean. It is the Doon School version of Pakistan. Lt. Gen (R) Ghulam Jillani Khan and Hasan Sahib both Doon School alumni lead this project from the front with a vision to develop university level education at the same location. With a campus spread over 190 acres it will perhaps one day emerge as an Education City.In 2017 he was invited to speak at the annual Dr Khalifa Abdul Hakim Lecture Series where he delivered a very powerful speech on ‘Technology and Development’. He strongly advocated the need of developing and applying appropriate technologies leading to socio-economic development. His definition of technology was simple,” A tool to solve problems all sorts”. According to him there was a time when people approached philosophers for answers now technology has taken over that role for which qualified Technologists are needed. Scientific research world over has resulted in technological advancement through a well-developed framework and linkage between academia and industry. This approach has not been adopted by the Islamic Ummah. Organizations like COMSTECH (Commission for Science and Technology for OIC) remains ineffective due to inappropriate leadership, vision and guidance. In the decade of the seventies National Commission for Science and Technology which reported directly to the Prime Minister was established to foster technological growth but it remains dormant due to bureaucratic control. Technical ministries like Science and Technology should be led by Technocrats instead of bureaucrats.Unfortunately, in the land of the pure the importance of technology is grossly misunderstood and overlooked. Technology is the application of science to produce products and facilitate human effort. Technology takes over where science reaches its limit. What works in the laboratory under control conditions has to be mass produced by understanding and application of technology. While science consumes, technology produces. I had the opportunity of working on his team for over a decade before taking on the Chairmanship of Pakistan Science Foundation. His parting words were, ‘One can achieve a lot if one does not seek credit or personal benefits’. That was the generation that laid the foundations of the new land.He strongly advocated the need of developing and applying appropriate technologies leading to socio-economic development. His definition of technology was simple,” A tool to solve problems all sorts”. According to him there was a time when people approached philosophers for answers now technology has taken over that role for which qualified Technologists are needed.Together we worked on projects of national importance. In the decade of the nineties the Saindak Copper and Gold project had started. Due to lack of large-scale commercial mining experience in the country, the venture was in trouble from day one. It was my first opening in the land of the pure. While we did our best to ensure complete transfer of technology together with building of trained work force but no one within the organization or the federal ministry was interested. It seemed that everyone had their own agenda to seek personal benefits. Despite warnings the entire project was handed over to the Chinese contractor, who have been mining there for the last about twenty years and now seek extension to dig out the remaining copper, gold and silver. Had the transfer of technology taken place at that time we would have been in a position to develop the Reko Diq project ourselves instead of the big mess that we face today. He insisted on Administrative Accountability instead of judicial that we have today. He propagated the development of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) as a first step towards accountability. Always quoted article 212 of the constitution of 1972 that called for the establishment of Administrative Courts for this purpose. In the 1973 version the idea was dropped and it is time to revisit this approach as there is dichotomy between the NAB laws and the Common Law that our courts follow. As Hasan Sahib was a close friend of Ikramullah Niazi a fellow engineer and father of Imran Khan he has been briefed about this approach of effective accountability.In the year 2002, together we prepared the first Shadow Budget of the country from the platform of the Lahore Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI). We proposed massive increases in the areas of education and health while balancing the budget. The criticism of the current budget (2020-2021) continues while no one has done any homework to present alternative figures of proposed expenditures. Political parties in the country no longer work for common good of the citizens, instead they have become anchors of status quo. Corona has reset the world economic order; the aftershocks of the pandemic have to be catered for. A lot of planning is required both by the government and the opposition. Small but mandatory items like face masks are out of reach of the daily wage earners. A holistic plan is needed to meet the challenges which is missing on both ends.In March this year we bid farewell to Dr Mubashir Hasan another comrade and outstanding engineer. He died at the age of 98 years. One by one the era of selfless contributors towards common good is coming to an end. A new generation is taking over where self-projection has become the norm. On insistence of the family Hasan Sahib started his biography which is now being reviewed for publication with the proposed title of: ‘ Journey of a Technologist ‘. The purpose is to record his achievements as a guideline for the coming generations of engineers and technologists who will lead the nation in the challenging times that lie ahead. Pakistan needs indigenously developed technologies for its socio-economic growth and development which science alone cannot deliver. Product focused research with appropriate business plans is the way forward. Technologists of the calibre of Engr. Masood Hasan Manto are rare, much like his uncle Saadat Hasan Manto who is revered for his contribution to literature, he will be long revered for his contribution in the development of technology in his native land which he served with his utmost devotion, dedication, honesty and integrity. May his soul rest in peace and his innings for the technological advancement of the motherland guide us in our future endeavours. Pakistan needs Technology to move forward and become an Asian Tiger like China, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, and South Korea our derailment has to come to an end."
Web Desk,Is this the end of globalisation?,2020-06-16,"Covid19 and a new economic orderBy: Maryam KhanOn March 11, when the World Health Organization announced the outbreak of the novel virus, COVID-19, as a pandemic– economists around the world hinted at yet another round of devastating demand and supply shocks. By mid-May, the statistics showed that COVID-19 had infected over 7.9 million people worldwide in 215 countries, with over 432,000 deaths. With a continuous burden on the governments and overwhelmed health-care systems around the globe, there has been an implementation of strict public health measures to respond to an outbreak as huge as the coronavirus. Ranging from social distancing to a complete lockdown, the measures have been perpetually constraining the socio-economic activities of countries with serious repercussions.But interestingly, while most ongoing debates centre on finding adequate measures to balance out public health efforts` that would curb the virus, and neutralize the economic impact of the virus– both simultaneously, what is being missed by analysts around the globe is the imminent threat, the pandemic seems to be posing to the global order.No financial crisis in the past can be an adequate guide for a post-pandemic economy. However, at the same time, it’s also true that financial crises in the past have underlined significant changes in economic thinking and policy formulation. For instance, the post-world-war II economic thinking was largely inspired by John Keynes’ general theory. Likewise, by the looks of it, a post-pandemic economic thinking may have to undergo a relevant metamorphosis.I say this because there has never been a pandemic outbreak before in a world such as ours– globalized, integrated and economically interdependent. With the significant drop in global consumption patterns, what we see is a direct hit at the global value chains (GVCs). From research and development to final product, the stages of production are scattered around the world. If China is the hub of manufacturing, Sub-Saharan countries are the cornerstone to supplying resource-based goods like oils and minerals. With such complex economic interdependence, the effect of a shutdown in Wuhan, China, seems to reverberate in the international value chain even before covid-19 caused lockdowns in other parts of the world.It’s time to rethink economic institutions! Restrictions on trade openness, changing political systems– with globalization bidding us farewell, we need to underpin a new economic theory that withstands the burden of this changing economic orderWhile the US-China trade-war has already caused disruption in the smooth functioning of global value chains, covid-19 has seemed to only expedite it. With the curtailing of demand and consumption, national economies will have to rethink models with a reduced reliance on GVCs. The novel pandemic has seemingly made us realize that markets cannot work and run on the single motive of ‘profit maximization’ at the cost of human life. These global corporates rely on community for operation, and the novel pandemic has affected the community in such adverse ways that it has consequently affected business operations.Not to forget that the novel pandemic has seemingly curtailed the adverse implications of Climate Change, signifying the need to be environmentally conscious outside a pandemic world too– this has made the consumers revisit their current consumption patterns, putting more value on sustainability, pressuring businesses, especially MNCs, around the world to account for ecological concerns in their businesses. The pandemic might force businesses to look beyond the maxim of profit maximization and towards social responsibility.Pritim Sorokin, a Russian-American sociologist, once stated that “society is never the same as the one that existed before the calamity. For good or ill, calamities are unquestionably the supreme disruptors and transformers of social organization and institutions.”With the turmoil in the world market due to covid-19, it may seem insolvent, but covid-19 seems to an opportunity to reduce in the long term the prevalence of lifestyles based on large volumes of energy and material throughput. However, at the same time, imperatives such as social distancing to lower the risk of community transmission, seem to be reinforcing commitments to individualized rather than public and shared modes of consumption, posing serious threats to globalization.It could be said that with consumption patterns undergoing alterations due to economic and social offshoots of this pandemic, there could be a need to rethink economic institutions. These changes in consumerism are forcing us to reimagine the role of the market and states, challenging policy-makers to navigate policy responses that inherit all these changes. Analyzing policy responses in the most accurate and definite way may not be possible, but stipulations can be made as a potential economist. Curbing of globalization may result in more stringent protectionist policies. Such as the case with the ongoing US-China trade war.Moreover, with the diminishing consumer demand for global chains and brands as a result of pandemic, many countries such as Hong Kong and South Korea, seem to be showcasing autocratic tendencies resulting in policies that inhibit trade and foreign investment. The result of such stringent protectionist policies can strengthen internal oligopolies and vested interests. A diminishing export markets will cause losses to countries from their natural and human endowments. Workers will have lesser opportunities to move up the value chain by earning, spending and saving more. Thus, overall – with the changing spending behavior of consumers and long-term risks to value chains, we may be moving from globalization to de-globalization.We might not be able to save globalization from its impending doom, but there is, however, still room for making a smooth transition towards a new socio-economic order.Policy-makers need to adopt policies that enhance domestic production and industries, to move and revert towards more self-sustaining methods of economic growth in order to tackle growing protectionism and autocratic behavior of states.Next, the need for strong socialist frameworks is becoming dire─ to propel and practice sustainable means of production and consumption in the society, we may need to move towards less resource intensive methods of consumption. This has been the most compelling debate over the years between the Democrats and Republicans in the USA. With covid-19 expediting the need to adapt to more sustainable economic practices, it has become inevitable for global businesses in large economies (such as the USA) to overlook the ecological side to further their profit-maximization.Lastly, it’s time to rethink economic institutions! Restrictions on trade openness, changing political systems– with globalization bidding us farewell, we need to underpin a new economic theory that withstands the burden of this changing economic order."
Ali Gauhar,Making sure hate loses,2020-06-16,"Why can’t Pakistan have the conversation the USA is having?Outrage continues in the USA over the gruesome murder of George Floyd by a police officer in Minneapolis. The African-American experience is unique, to say the least. Dehumanized and subjugated for centuries, no matter how much progress has been made, and it has, racism still lingers. The heartbreaking video of Floyd’s murder was a reminder of that.The anger and frustration of American citizens is being projected across the world by their mainstream media. While some of the protests descended into looting and violence, the overarching message of what these protests truly represent hasn’t been forgotten. The conversation continues to be had. Many at this point will disagree as passions are running high, but the American people need to be lauded for consistently highlighting the systematic racism against African-Americans. Let’s forget the aberration that is Donald Trump. His inflammatory remarks do not represent the USA’s conscience. The Democrats are already in the process of drafting new legislation aimed at police reform. Tech billionaires are putting millions into criminal justice efforts, along with top American athletes. People with a platform are coming to the fore when it matters most.The USA made significant progress after the Civil Rights Movement. While it didn’t end racism and white privilege, the strides made should be recognized. One cannot escape the coverage of Floyd’s death. It is the lead story, even during a pandemic. This says a lot. People are deeply concerned that African-Americans are still victims of the criminal justice system, policy brutality, unemployment, and inherent discrimination. The majority of Americans are appalled that African-Americans do not have the same access to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness due to deep-rooted institutionalized racism. These issues are constantly being discussed and dissected in the media in order to improve the situation. Hundreds of books, movies, and television shows tell stories of the horrors of what Black Americans had, and still have, to go through, which helps in shedding prejudices and creating awareness.Perhaps it’s unfair to draw comparisons, but sometimes it’s hard to ignore blatant hypocrisy. The USA is not alone in harboring hatred for a people. Many countries have had problems with racism, including Pakistan. Some won’t admit it, but West Pakistanis saw the Bengalis of East Pakistan as beneath them because of their skin colour, and look how that ended up. Pakistan has a deplorable track record when it comes to the treatment of minority communities. The worst part is, we cannot even have the conversation. Forget having it publicly, it’s difficult to have it privately. The institutions of democracy and society continually let Pakistan’s minority communities down. Why is Pakistan not ready to accept minorities as equals? It’s because self-appointed clerics of organized religion continue to hold sway. Are we ready to change the narrative? Is the media ready to take this on? Doubtful.Rather than only banging on about a country’s shortcomings, we should also look at what it’s doing right, and how we can learn from it. There is no doubt that USA has a lot to answer for, within and without. However, it’s important to recognize that unlike many countries, Americans of all hues are able to come out in droves and demand justice. So before we start attacking and hash tagging others, lets look within firstPeople talk of implementing stronger legislation, but how can a country legislate on something that it doesn’t believe in? Conversation has to happen before legislation. Pakistan hasn’t even crossed the first hurdle, as we are fueled with ignorance and arrogance. Even marching for a girl who was shot in the face was spun into controversy.Many will say that it is too soon for a young country like Pakistan to change. They will argue that a shift in mindset is a gradual process, and should not be forced upon people that aren’t ready for it. But if we look back, all great change has been forced. Slavery would not have been abolished if it were not forced upon in the USA. The Islamic revolution was brought about by the Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) on the Quraish that ruled Mecca, suddenly. He shook up the status quo and heralded in a new and more equitable order. Let’s always believe that the time to do right is always now. The time for justice is always now.One of the reasons why race relations improved in the USA was because there were enough people at the helm that cared. The media put pressure on elected officials to make a difference. It took great self-reflection and humility for America to get to this level, and it’s still far from perfect and willing to acknowledge it. For a country as large and diverse as the USA, their progress and dedication to achieving equality over the last 50 years has to be admired. In contrast, a country like India worked to create this false aura of diversity and tolerance, but no one is buying it now because of the acute anti-minorities and Muslim-hating crusade.Rather than only banging on about a country’s shortcomings, we should also look at what it’s doing right, and how we can learn from it. There is no doubt that the USA has a lot to answer for, within and without. However, it’s important to recognize that unlike many countries, Americans of all hues are able to come out in droves and demand justice. So before we start attacking and hash tagging others, lets look within first."
Dr Rajkumar Singh,Lockdown and online learning,2020-06-16,"Higher education has to adaptThe outbreak of the c+ovid-19 pandemic, to begin with in China in December 2019, and its spread to Europe, the USA and India in subsequent weeks, has thrown normal activity into total disarray, leading to governments imposing lockdown in their respective countries. As a follow up the government and higher educational institutions (HEIs) quickly announced that online teaching would be conducted by the faculty. While some of the rich private universities promptly announced online teaching, the state-run public universities have faced immense practical problems in implementing the decision. It is possible for a few, but most of the institutions have not been able to implement online teaching due to the poorly-equipped facilities at their disposal. Even assuming that the faculty have the facilities and intellectual capability to do online teaching, students have complained about the lack of facilities in their rural homes where they have gone back to, following the closure of colleges.Especially in disciplines like languages, humanities and social sciences, good quality reading material has not been prepared by a large number of teachers who still rely on traditional methods of classroom teaching. The situation may be true in many science-related disciplines too, barring technical education. How would meaningful online teaching be carried out in such situations if the closure of institutions continues for a longer spell?Online methods are also difficult for the conduct of practical classes in disciplines where it is absolutely necessary, when students have moved out of the campus? In the absence of the conduct of practical classes, the conduct of online education would fall flat. In the case of technical courses, as well as in commerce and management disciplines, students have to do internships with industry as part of the course requirements. How would students be fruitfully able to undergo internship when academic institutions and industries are closed due to lockdown? Some industries may reopen in the course of time, but would they be able to comply with internship requirements, concerned as they are with productivity and sales? Another important issue which is faced by HEIs is how would they make up for the loss of time on account of closure of institutions due to covid-19. Assuming the mandatory 75 percent attendance requirement of classes is waived, what would happen to the internal assessment tests and viva voce examinations which are part of the requirements under the semester system in operation?Online learning has a lot of potential and even though it has been thrust into the spotlight under unfortunate circumstances, it is time that universities and educational institutions utilize this tool effectivelyThese apart, are the plans drawn up for the conduct of semester examinations, evaluation of answer scripts and the announcement of results, all of which will require at least six weeks of time after the completion of the term? That would throw the next year’s academic calendar out of gear, with the 2020-21 academic year starting probably in September.In the new situation, students open their learning with WhatsApp, download the PDF file, listen to the audio lecture, and then move on to the video chat with their professor to discuss the lesson. It is the fate of more than 60 million students worldwide who are attending some form of online lectures in a post-coronavirus world.In this context we also use many online tools like YouTube, Google Classroom and others. The students understand the importance of continuing education. A new name, Education 4.0, is here to stay, until another significant disruption in technology takes place. India is not new to online education. Many private and government colleges in the country had been conducting online classes. Very small aperture terminals (VSATs) are still used by top Business schools in the country to create a closed user group (CUGs), which offers online classes globally. However, covid-19 has hastened the online education sector, and mobile networks have become the preferred platform.Online education depends on several factors and robust connectivity is at the top of that list. Covid-19 has led to a successful collaboration between telecom firms and streaming companies like Netflix and Youtube, in lowering the transmission bit rate from high definition to standard definition, which was done to maintain the network capacity. It made more bandwidth available for a large number of users. Going forward, learning app firms could work together with technology providers and telecom service providers to develop tools that make learning truly enjoyable. They could also explore providing students with the real-time experience of managing chemicals and operating machines. All this is only possible with optimum utilisation of network capacity.To ensure that learning never stops, teachers are preparing lessons using distance learning tools, and parents are learning new teaching techniques at home. Following the government’s long lockdown, there has been a surge in online education by schools and colleges across the country. Such an exercise requires the availability of high bandwidth and the telecom industry is fully prepared with 99.9 per cent network capacity. Telecom companies have taken appropriate measures to meet the surge in traffic due to online education and other online activitiesMany colleges that have used online platforms in the past have made a smooth transition post-covid-19. This is a unique situation in design education, and the World University Design (WUD) was the first to take the lead so that studies are not compromised and students do not fall back on their curriculum. The coronavirus outbreak has just hastened the process. We were the first to switch to an online mode, which is not only benefitting the students in India, but also overseas students. Other major universities in the country including Jawahar Lal Nehru University, Jamia Millia Islamia, Amity, Sharda, IP University, Lovely Professional University and Mumbai University are offering online classes across different subjects. Sharda University has put together a contingency plan in which the faculty and staff are working towards ensuring a seamless transformation to digital/online learning via technology solutions like Zoom, Big Blue Button and Google Classroom. Online learning has a lot of potential and even though it has been thrust into the spotlight under unfortunate circumstances, it is time that universities and educational institutions utilize this tool effectively.Last but by no means the least important issue is the likely possibility of budgetary allocations made to higher education being reduced and transferred to areas which are more important for the government as a result of the health pandemic becoming an economic pandemic. While reduction in spending on higher education may be justified by the powers be, the government, in the long-run, should earmark the much-promised six percent of the GDP for higher education and equally importantly, increase the budgetary allocation for healthcare. One shudders to think of a situation where the virus would be airborne and the consequent damage it can cause to humanity. Priority should be to encourage research on finding medical solutions to future pandemics rather than simply extending lockdowns.India, along with the world, is fighting the covid-19 virus while ensuring education in schools and colleges does not suffer. The fight, it seems, will be a long one, and the way we educate our next generation has undoubtedly changed.The writer is head of the political science department, B.N. Mandal Unversity, Madhepura, Bihar, India. He can be reached at: [email protected]"
Hasan Aftab Saeed,On information overload,2020-06-15,"More on PowerPoint in educationIn an article published in these pages entitled ‘Too much of a bad thing’, I had listed some reasons why PowerPoint was a bad idea in teaching. This was more than a year ago. In the meanwhile, I have had reasons to revise that view. I owe my readers – all one hundred of them – an apology followed by making a clean breast of it. I now believe that PowerPoint is even more inimical to education than my last review suggested.In what is considered its principal plus, PowerPoint makes it extremely easy to pack in a lot of information – in fact as much information as one wants to include, and a whole lot more (because why the hell not!). Admittedly, this is not PowerPoint’s fault, only that of the user in how he uses it. But just as a man with a hammer in his hand can rarely resist using it, it’s impossible to resist going over the top with PowerPoint’s bullets unless one is endowed with superhuman self-discipline – something extremely rare on this side of the Bosporus. So, the net effect on the student is that of not seeing the forest for the trees. He feels he has heard a lot on the subject without having understood any one aspect in concrete terms.The man teaching some subject on PowerPoint does not need to have nearly the level of preparation that a man who develops the same concept live (so to speak). And the latter simply cannot do it without being fully involved in the class. This involvement directly translates into the involvement of his audience. But that is only a part of it. To the man doing it all on the board, economy dictates that he sticks to a plan and avoids clutter. Anything he decides to do, takes up time, which is at a premium. He is therefore forced to prioritize. Prioritize! – if there is one word that defines the job description of the teacher, this is it. Every subject under the sun is large enough to demand many lifetimes to master. The teacher’s role at any level of learning is to prioritize the content for his student at that level. He always has a little less time than he would like.Here, I am by no means advocating short-changing students by over-simplifying things or (worse) teaching them what is not true. Let me illustrate my point with an example. Let’s say there are three factors that combine to contribute 95% to a process, and there are two hundred others that contribute to the remaining 5%. It is the teacher’s job to ensure that the student goes home knowing the three factors, the share of each, and their overwhelming influence (to the exclusion of all others). It does no good to the student if he is given a list of 200 factors. In fact, this sort of thing could easily hinder his understanding of the subject. The same goes for minute local aberrations in an overall decisive trend. There are occasions in life where less is more. Of course, each subject can be learnt in increasing depth with more and more added at each layer; but without a hierarchy it is only information, not knowledge – certainly not wisdom. We have cheap access to data storage facilities for huge quantities of data, but we need humans for knowledge and wisdom.He is therefore forced to prioritize. Prioritize! – if there is one word that defines the job description of the teacher, this is it. Every subject under the sun is large enough to demand many lifetimes to master. The teacher’s role at any level of learning is to prioritize the content for his student at that level. He always has a little less time than he would like.One of the major jobs of a teacher is to save the student from getting bogged down in unnecessary details that do nothing to improve his understanding of the concept at his level of study. The nuances to be included and those to leave out are matters for the teacher’s judgment. This is where a good teacher distinguishes himself from an average one. For, while life – and by extension any subject – is no doubt complicated; not every detail is of equal importance. Board and chalk (or their variants) force this prioritization on the teacher. He would never think of listing two hundred factors on the board, much less expect his students to know them all. With PowerPoint at his disposal, there is nothing he could not – and would not – include.Modules of any subject, like aspects of life itself, are complexly interdependent; and yet, of necessity, they need to be taught in more or less a linear fashion. All subjects are boundless; and yet the semester is time-bound. One couldn’t hope to exhaust the nuances of the simplest of concepts even if one spoke for days on end; and yet the class is only so many minutes long. Most textbooks are so bulky they make very effective doorstops; and yet the students have their lives to live too. The teacher’s impossible but tremendously rewarding role is to somehow reconcile these seemingly opposing realities. When he succeeds in pulling it off, it is like magic. Even when he fails while giving his best, there is something heroic in his failure. But he makes his already impossible odds even steeper if he decides to rely on PowerPoint as his principal tool."
Shah Nawaz Mohal,"We, the migratory animals",2020-06-15,"And the two options this world gives to those who move away from homeFreedom, of any hue, colour, or creed wants sacrifice, nah, it does not want it, it demands sacrifice. Sacrifice of life is the ultimate one. Once anyone is willing to part with their lives, there is nothing that can stop them from taking the ultimate leap, if freedom from any kind of oppression is end-all-and-be-all for a person, they just can’t wait for the end. They jump the hedge; they trespass the final obstacle and take the leap. Rather than allowing life to take its course and delivering divine justice promised in scriptures, they just prefer the last regret.Shaheed Bhagat Singh was one of these people along with his group of merry men who went all out to bring the British empire on its knees. They failed. Some were murdered by the state, some slayed themselves. The anarchist in every single one of them was high on the ultimate ideal-freedom, fuelled by fury and rage, they wanted to rid their country of oppression, foreign occupation and exploitation. They failed.Some would say, they didn’t. They kept the angst alive. They sacrificed their mortal bodies to water the soul of a nation that was divided along a hundred lines. Castes divided the masses into fragments, wealth divided the affluent, more affluent and those having no affluence in water-tight compartments, religions divided same caste members into baffled folks who knew little, thought nothing and feigned knowing everything. Languages divided regional cultures. Muslim vs. Hindu. Jat vs. Bengali. Brahman vs. Shudi. Urdu speakers vs. Sages of Sanskrit. And the division kept on getting deeper and deeper, spreading wider and wider, turning denser and denser, making every reality dizzier and dizzier.Bhagat Singh and his fellow gentlemen were the martyrs we had, demigods we turned them into and in the marketplace of ideas we sell them like t-shirts having iconic pictures of Che Guevera, Guy Fawkes masks, every Tom Alone, Tom’s Harry, Harry’s Tom and Dick printed on, sans a purpose, without a thought.And in our age, we the potential Bhagat Singhs from our part of the planet, the sub-continent, seek our ultimate freedom in a student visa, a work permit, a spouse with foreign nationality, an illegal way to get across to Greece in search of greener pastures like Germany and France.Or, we seek refuge in our own colour, those who have the same passports as us, who have lived through the same realities we already know like the back of our hand. The comfort they have is what we ran away from in the first place. And even though we have severed the shackles of the place we hated; we fall in the same trap. Away from the home, we had. Home, the doomed home, we are still in.We, the great, grand, splendid folks of South Asia who habitually take impossible amount of pride in our cultures, religions, languages, way of life, honor, world view and what not have all the wisdom in the universe yet we shy away from answering a simple question: What makes us think that we are the centre of the Universe? Why does everything always have to be either in our favour or an enemy incarnate? Why can’t we just realize, admit and move on with life. A life with all the enormity, all the anguish, all the beautiful moments and all the rotten memories. Why can’t we just know who we are to the world at large. We are either a big, humongous market to sell ideas to or a part of the world that provides labour in abundance, while creating manageable levels of nuisance at our borders.Those who left home, left their loved ones behind have two options to choose from.Either to assimilate in the international crowd, befriend complete strangers out of the blue, in alone, gloomy, partying streets we find companions who answer our SOS. Fathers, old, old fathers we have left behind, back at home, drawing pension or working two jobs so that we can move ahead in the world, we sense their absence and seek their presence in places they were never fortunate enough or too busy to visit. And Mothers, you can’t endure the tears in pixels on your phone, you end the call. And cry. And roam around missing not hugging her tightly enough the last time you saw her.Or, we seek refuge in our own colour, those who have the same passports as us, who have lived through the same realities we already know like the back of our hand. The comfort they have is what we ran away from in the first place. And even though we have severed the shackles of the place we hated; we fall in the same trap. Away from the home, we had. Home, the doomed home, we are still in.When I came here, folks it is still a column not a personal blog, yet I would love to share what option I choose out of the two above. I choose the ‘either’ one, the first one. I choose loneliness over comfort. I choose agony of long, dark, gloomy winters over solace that reeked of home, yet was just an attempt to tame a rogue child I have always been.What did I get?Well, I got to experience professors I could share a cigarette with, friends I can get lost and found in Black, Black Berlin and the pastural beauty that Potsdam has to offer. I got to see the world I read about. I got to get over grief. I got over heartbreak. I got over missing home, for I found the reason for leaving it. I belong to a species whose nature is condemned to migrate from one land to another, one feeling to another, one moment to another.We, the migratory animals. We, the seekers of home in lands not ours."
Dr James J Zogby,The annexation debate,2020-06-15,"American and European responsibilityWashington WatchWith Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu promising to annex portions of the West Bank, liberal critics here in the US and across Europe are in a tizzy. They have been quick to point fingers blaming this crisis on Netanyahu and US President Donald Trump – since Trump’s “Deal of the Century” allows for Israel to claim at least 30% of the West Bank. The critics, however, are wrong since paternity for this imminent extension of Israeli sovereignty over occupied Palestinian lands goes beyond the current Israeli government or the Trump Administration. There are, in fact, three culprits.In the first place, blame must be placed squarely on the shoulders of all Israeli governments going back to the beginning of the occupation over one-half century ago. Since then, Israel has repeatedly violated international law by establishing settlements in the occupied territories – initially claiming it was for “security reasons:” to thicken its border, to surround and lay claim to an expanded Jerusalem, and to control the Jordan Valley.In the late 1970s, Likud embraced a plan to both accelerate settlement construction in these areas while also expanding settlements in the interior of the West Bank. The plan also called for building roads to connect these settlements to pre- ‘67 Israel for the expressed purpose of carving up the West Bank making a contiguous Palestinian area impossible.After signing the Oslo Accords, the pace of settlement expansion in the West Bank intensified with settler population doubling in the first eight years. In the past two decades, the number of settlers doubled once again.Even liberal US voices who oppose annexation fall short in their criticism. Their critiques are all too often hollow and toothless, since they refuse to couple their warnings with any promise to cut aid to Israel or any other sanctions that might cause an Israeli government to reconsider.In reality, whether Israel formally extends sovereignty or not, today Israel has virtually annexed much of the West Bank, exercising near complete control over the occupied territories. They have moved over 650,000 of their citizens beyond the internationally recognized border, built roads and infrastructure to connect these settlers to Israel proper, constructed a 290-mile wall (much of it on Palestinian land), and set up over 100 checkpoints, denying Palestinians freedom of movement. In the Jordan Valley, they have burned thousands of acres of Palestinian agricultural land and fenced off much more. As a result, the West Bank and what the Israelis call “East Jerusalem” (actually 24 Palestinian villages now termed “neighborhoods” in the fiction Israelis call “Greater Jerusalem”) are now even further divided without access to land and water.Fault must also be found with successive American administrations which protested or complained, but ultimately acquiesced to this Israeli colonial conquest. During this half-century, US policy shifted from calling settlements “illegal,” to “obstacles to peace,” to “unhelpful,” to saying “continued settlement expansion is illegitimate.”Beginning with the Bush Administration and continuing under the Obama Administration, while new settlement expansion was frowned upon, existing settlements were viewed as “realities.” For the Israelis, the lesson was clear, settlement expansion might be frowned upon, but once built, they were accepted – so why not let the US whine while continuing to build? The refusal or inability of the US to act decisively to put the brakes on settlement expansion led to an Israeli sense of impunity. In this context, the approach taken by the Trump Administration in its “Deal of the Century” is the logical extension of 50 years of US acquiescence.Even liberal US voices who oppose annexation fall short in their criticism. Their critiques are all too often hollow and toothless, since they refuse to couple their warnings with any promise to cut aid to Israel or any other sanctions that might cause an Israeli government to reconsider. Their pious claims of wanting to protect the “two state solution” are, at best, hollow – more of a “two-state absolution” – as if this show of support absolves them of their failures to call for the very measures that might make such a Palestinian state a reality.Last but not least, Europe must share some of the blame. We are 100 years after the notorious San Remo Conference, which not unlike the Trump “Deal of the Century,” arrogated to itself the right to carve up the region and support the Balfour Declaration without any consultation with or consideration for the rights of the indigenous people of whose lands they were giving away. In the intervening years Europe changed, but only somewhat.It was 40 years ago this month, that nine major European countries, frustrated with the lack of US leadership, issued the Venice Declaration – in which they called for an end to the occupation in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolutions 224 and 338, the right of the Palestinians to be represented by the PLO, and their right to self-determination.But in the four decades that have passed, while Europe has passed numerous declarations and voted to condemn Israeli policies on a number of occasions, including a recent statement warning against Israel’s annexation of the territories, they continued to cede control of Israeli-Palestinian peace to US. In addition, European declarations are without teeth, so their warnings have been ignored. And so, while the US has become either Israel’s coat holder or cheerleader, Europe has rendered itself an impotent bystander in a conflict for which they have some paternity and toward which they could have an impact.If we are to learn any lessons from past failures, on the eve of Israel’s threat to formally annex parts of the West Bank, here’s what must be done:First, Israel must be called to account not only if it moves forward with annexation, but for its half-century of lawless behavior. To end impunity, there must be accountability. The response cannot just be recognition of a Palestinian state. Because this state will still not be in control of its territory, economy, and resources – such recognition will be a hollow gesture. Accountability requires sanctions, because if there are no economic and political consequences, then bad behavior will continue.In line with this, it is of critical importance that the human rights of the Palestinian people be elevated as a concern by the international community. The Palestinian people cannot remain defenseless as they continue to be victimized by the Israeli occupation and settler violence. Land theft, home demolitions, collective punishment of civilian populations, mass incarceration, abuse of children, the daily humiliation at checkpoints, and other forms of repression will continue to scar Palestinians as long as the international community feigns powerlessness.Exposure of these Israeli crimes is the first step. Accountability and sanctions are the remedy.Europe, or at the European states who issued the Venice Declaration, should recognize that the factor – the US inability to act as an honest broker – that led them to assert (but then fail to deliver on) their “special role” and responsibility still exists. They should assume a greater role to balance that played by the US. That will, of necessity, require political and economic sanctions, because mere statements of condemnation will continue to be ignored."
Humayun Gauhar,Life or Livelihood,2020-06-15,"The world’s reserve currency, political systems, behaviour, are all changingThis is a terrible choice. Especially for a government. It is a choice before every government in the world and the answer is not easy. Because of that, most governments will opt for the middle course.The problem is that if governments continue with the lockdown, their economies will suffer further and employment, businesses and therefore livelihoods become near impossible. If they end the lockdown then the pandemic will spread and many more people will die, and that’s the end of life. It’s a double whammy. But then, without livelihood, life will decrease if not end. With life continuing as it did in the pre-covid-19 era, life will end at the hands of the pandemic, perhaps faster. So what is the point? Remember the purpose of every government is to improve the human condition and if the human condition declines I ask again, what is the point? Until a vaccine is found and the virus stopped dead in its tracks, there will be no answer. So the middle course will be what everyone is trying to do. Ease the lockdown and get as many people back to their jobs while implementing strict SOPs. The problem is to ensure that the SOPs are followed.When the lockdown was eased in Pakistan, just look at the crowds that gathered in bazaars without regard to social distancing and many not wearing masks. Obviously the pandemic will spread, hospitals will be even more overwhelmed and governments will be at their wits end. The obvious answer is to manage, not control, human behaviour. That’s easier said than done. You have to be a strict one-party state like China to be able to do that. In a flawed democracy or the pretence of it, you cannot. One would say, you need to educate the populace so that they understand the difference between right and wrong and what’s good for them and bad for them. That’s also easier said than done. So the pandemic will spread, economies will derail until people learn hard lessons. Social distancing and masks and hand-washing and all that jazz will become the cultural norm. It was our government, like others, that was caught between a rock and a hard place– life or livelihood? There is a triple whammy too: a burgeoning debt, huge fiscal and current account deficits, as too a trade deficit. People not paying income tax, a scourge our governments have perennially brought upon themselves by not applying income tax on many sectors of the economy like agriculture. That’s about 23 percent of the GDP that goes scot-free. Add to that incomplete documentation of the economy and you already have an impossible situation on your hands. But let’s not labour the point because in our kind of electoral democracy, if you lose the sympathy of the landlord, you lose his vote in the lower house of Parliament and will not be able to form a government. Obviously this cries out for a change in the system. That’s not all. There is also the humongous annual debt servicing bill and the perpetual bleeding done on the government’s resources by white elephants called the ‘public sector enterprises.’ These have to be rationalized very fast either by closure or by privatization or by selling 26 percent shares to strategic managers. Given these difficulties, the government did a creditable job introducing a Budget at all. There is little room for criticism.That’s not the only thing that is failing. The great political systems of the world, which are best described as electoral democracies, are about to bite the dust for they have stopped delivering and we, as God says, have to “choose from amongst the best”Pakistan does not exist in a vacuum. No country does. It should be obvious that the USA is the engine of the global economy and if it suffers, its economy suffers and so does the global economy. And so too does Pakistan and every other country. The centerpiece of the US economy is its currency that they made the global reserve currency instead of gold. So every country is hostage to the dollar and if the dollar goes down, other countries will go down because they will be holding reserves in paper whose value has diminished. I have been saying this in my last few articles but I am not alone. Many American writers are warning of the fall of the dollar. For example, Stephen Roach writes in Bloomberg: ‘A crash in the dollar is coming.’ It would be useful to quote at some length from his article:“The era of the U.S. dollar’s “exorbitant privilege” as the world’s primary reserve currency is coming to an end. Then French Finance Minister Valery Giscard d’Estaing coined that phrase in the 1960s largely out of frustration, bemoaning a U.S. that drew freely on the rest of the world to support its over-extended standard of living. For almost 60 years, the world complained but did nothing about it. Those days are over.Already stressed by the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, U.S. living standards are about to be squeezed as never before. At the same time, the world is having serious doubts about the once widely accepted presumption of American exceptionalism. Currencies set the equilibrium between these two forces — domestic economic fundamentals and foreign perceptions of a nation’s strength or weakness. The balance is shifting, and a crash in the dollar could well be in the offing.The seeds of this problem were sown by a profound shortfall in domestic U.S. savings that was glaringly apparent before the pandemic. In the first quarter of 2020, net national saving, which includes depreciation-adjusted saving of households, businesses and the government sector, fell to 1.4% of national income. This was the lowest reading since late 2011 and one-fifth the average of 7% from 1960 to 2005.Lacking in domestic saving, and wanting to invest and grow, the U.S. has taken great advantage of the dollar’s role as the world’s primary reserve currency and drawn heavily on surplus savings from abroad to square the circle. But not without a price. In order to attract foreign capital, the U.S. has run a deficit in its current account — which is the broadest measure of trade because it includes investment — every year since 1982.Covid-19, and the economic crisis it has triggered, is stretching this tension between saving and the current-account to the breaking point. The culprit: exploding government budget deficits. According to the bi-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the federal budget deficit is likely to soar to a peacetime record of 17.9% of gross domestic product in 2020 before hopefully receding to 9.8% in 2021.”So there you have it in plain words. It is not just me saying this. But something cannot disappear without something else appearing in its place. Nature abhors a vacuum. And as I have said before, that something else has to be the Chinese Yuan. I have been accused of having a “gilded view” of China, but something that is so obvious would be foolhardy to ignore.This will be the last great test for an independent Pakistan before we settle down to the new currency regime.That’s not the only thing that is failing. The great political systems of the world, which are best described as electoral democracies, are about to bite the dust for they have stopped delivering and we, as God says, have to “choose from amongst the best.”I said that human behaviour has to be managed. When you’re managing something it has to be of a manageable size. This cries out for smaller states that will be easier to manage but that’s a long subject and we will get into it at some later date when I have the time and you have the patience."
Web Desk,Child Labour Laws and Pakistan’s International Commitments,2020-06-15,"Child labour violates not just childrens rights, but fundamental rights tooBy: Changezi SandhuUnfortunately, there is not even a single day that goes without at least one case (reported or unreported) of child abuse, rape, murder, kidnapping, torturing, and becoming a victim of marital disputes, enmity. Children’s rights are infringed even by forced labour, by forcing them to work in a hazardous environment and their employment as minors needs watching because of financial hardships and other factors in our society. However, this will focus on the child labour laws and the legal commitments of Pakistan in this regard as a signatory of the International Labour Organization’s Minimum Age Convention (C138), ratified in 1973.Since 1996, there was not even a single nationwide survey on child labour in Pakistan. However, the federal and provincial governments all agreed to conduct a nationwide survey to extract data on child labour and the commitments of Pakistan with special reference to the international legal instruments that have been ratified by the country. These instruments regarding child labour are ILO C.138, Minimum Age, ILO C.182, Worst Forms of Child Labour, UN CRC, UN CRC Optional Protocol on Armed Conflict, UN Convention on the Rights of Child, CRC Optional Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography, and Palermo Protocol on Trafficking in Persons.According to the Survey, 12.4 percent children of 5 to 14 age, of the total children population of that age category, are working in Punjab, and 21.5 percent of children of the same age category are working in Sindh. The survey further concludes that Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab, and Sindh meet the international criteria of minimum age of work as per “ILO C.138, Minimum Age”, that is 15 in some circumstances. However, Pakistan’s labour laws are not much aligned with its international commitments on child labour. For instance, article 3 of the ILO Minimum Age Convention (C138) states regarding minimum age standard for children as “the minimum age for admission to any type of employment or work which by its nature or the circumstances in which it is carried out is likely to less than 18 years”. But all federal and provincial legal instruments in Pakistan consider 15 as the minimum age for child labour. Baluchistan province did not even set a minimum age for employment of children.A comprehensive and international model of check and balance must be applied to prevent individuals and groups from flouting the rules and regulations. We must give relief to the innocent and voiceless souls by giving protection to their rightsIn Punjab, the Punjab Domestic Workers Act 2019, Punjab Restriction on Employment of Children Act 2016, and Punjab Prohibition of Child Labour at Brick Kilns Act legally disallow a child to work if he or she is below 15-years old.In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Prohibition of Employment of Children Act, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Shops and Establishment Act and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Factories Act term 15-year the age when it is legal to work.In Sindh, the Sindh Prohibition of Employment of Children Act, Sindh Factories Act, Sindh Shops and Commercial Establishment Act allow the age of 15 as legal for child labour to work. In the capital territory, Factories Act, Shops and Establishment Ordinance, Mines Act, and the Road Transport Workers Ordinance allow a child to work at the age of 15.Grave violations of above mentioned conventions can be seen, which strike at human rights in general as well as children’s rights in particular. The most alarming matter is the working of minors (below age 15-year) in factories, brick kilns, houses, and on roads. There is not a fair implementation of these laws, particularly in rural areas.Physical violence and mental torture, including sexual abuse, are the most severe threats, especially for working children. Forced child labour and lowest wages further humiliate and exploit children. So, the working place atmosphere is not compatible with children’s rights. There are severe threats to the rights of children in multiple shapes.Many cases have been registered in the last year about brutal violence against children. For instance, in February, the case of eight-year-old maid Areej Fatima who was tortured badly by irons rods and sticks on her demanding her salary of 2 months, was registered. Another case was registered of violence against a child in the workplace in which a 16-year-old housemaid Uzma- was beaten badly by the lady of the house for talking food from her plate. She was kept in a locked room for days.There are many other cases which are unreported regarding violation of children’s rights. That of Zahra, the eight-year-old maid in Rawalpindi killed for letting prized parrots escape while she was feeding them, may have been extreme, but it threw a harsh light on the evil of domestic child labour.There is a dire need to respect children’s rights at the individual, societal, and state levels. The laws of the federal government and provinces must be revised and enacted in compliance with the international standards by fulfilling their responsibilities, which are legally binding as per the ratified conventions of the International Labour Organization. The minimum age of work must be 15 years old, following the ILO conventions. There must be a stern check against workplace violence on children, as well as there is a need to create a work-friendly environment for them to work after attaining the minimum age. Children should not be allowed to work in homes, streets, factories, or brick kilns.A comprehensive and international model of check and balance must be applied to prevent individuals and groups from flouting the rules and regulations. We must give relief to the innocent and voiceless souls by giving protection to their rights.The writer can be reached at: [email protected]"
Syed Kaswar Gardezi,Equal responsibility,2020-06-15,"The Prime Minister should have shown more leadershipThe covid-19 outbreak throughout the world has brought people together. While some families have spent their quarantine time together, others have stayed apart. In general, the countries who have managed to flatten the curve of rising cases have had strong cooperation from their citizens coupled with an exceptional display of leadership. Strict lockdowns and adherence to the rules has helped some countries stay on top of the pandemic. Owing to the systematic fight which these countries fought, they have now gradually started to ease down lockdown restrictions and return to normalcy, subject to social distancing rules.Pakistan, on the other hand, is one of those peculiar countries which decide to embrace the pandemic in a literal sense. The lockdown restrictions started to ease down the day we recorded our highest number of cases which, has since then been growing every day. The Prime Minister of our country remains steadfast in his resolve that the lockdown is not the solution to the pandemic and the economy of the country is more important. The common man cannot be allowed to suffer the disastrous effects of an economic meltdown, concludes our PM in most of his addresses to the nation. He further goes on to reassure the citizenry that the covid-19 virus causes a simple flu which gets better in a few days and there was nothing to worry about.The increase in cases has risen from hundreds to thousands each day as the lockdown has completely been lifted and PM Khan’s economy is back on track at the cost of an overwhelmed healthcare system which will soon collapse, under the present circumstances. The World Health Organization, closely monitoring the situation in Pakistan, has officially advised the Punjab government to impose a strict two-week lockdown in the province in order to counter the spread. While the letter brewed some sense in the provincial government and a lockdown was recommended, the Prime Minister, for reasons solely known to him, rejected the idea over the weekend. He reiterated his stance of not being able to afford a lockdown due to economic distress.Wearing a mask and washing our hands in itself is a hefty task for us, let alone complying with all the SOPs. They say everyone gets what they deserve. It appears to be true in our case. While we continue to profit on the lives of people and play upon the anxieties of the citizens, we continue to seek Divine help which would put is out of our misery soon. We offer prayers with the same contentment even though the grains churning in our stomach have been earned by selling our soulsThe Prime Minister, though widely claimed to have exceptional leadership skills, has failed to stay true to his oath he had taken. Wrong decisions at the wrong time have brought the country where it currently is, battling a pandemic with negligible health support and a dense population. The government and even the Supreme Court are of the view that the covid-19 outbreak is not a pandemic as far as Pakistan is considered, though the latter has recalled its order where these views were expressed.We are simply faced with a situation where our leader is not aware of his own population and country. He expects the citizens to comply with SOPs, observe social distancing rules, wear a mask, avoid large gatherings and stay indoors if necessary. He also expects the people to be cooperative and compliant with these rules. In that case, he simply doesn’t know the country he rules. We are a blended mix of illiteracy, stubbornness and lack of morality. According to us, the whole pandemic is a conspiracy to pull in aid and the government is exaggerating the number of deaths and cases due to the pandemic. We are also the same people who sell life-saving drugs at ten times the price because economic conditions are currently harsh. not to mention the various kinds of masks and sanitizers sold at exorbitant prices from which we have been able to maintain economic stability. Some plasma donors also take precedence who, while “donating” plasma, charge hundreds of thousands and feed on the anxiousness of those trying to save their loved ones. What a fine way of earning a livelihood.Then comes the set of people actively advocating their respective theories and encouraging people to be carefree as, according to them, covid-19 is a sham. This includes those mobs who have attacked hospitals, blaming them for killing their loved ones by a dose of lethal injection, under the guise of the coronavirus. And also the ones spreading herbal cures for the coronavirus and guaranteeing results within hours. Amidst the pandemic, every citizen is either a doctor or a philosopher with a groundbreaking theory rolled up his or hersleeve.We, the people, could not spend one Eid staying indoors and without rushing to markets for shopping. The end of the lockdown in itself was celebrated by most like Eid. The last ten days of Ramadan, we were let loose after weeks of captivity. We left no stone unturned to meet and greet each other, catch up on the clothes shopping and generally socialize with people. With the end of the lockdown, the coronavirus was over for us therefore, we thronged to public places including mosques, because how could one catch a virus in the House of God, right?Turns out, while Imran Khan shares a heavy burden for putting us in the situation we are currently in, we, ourselves, have rushed towards this situation eagerly and willingly. The heavier burden was on the general populace to tackle the pandemic as a united nation. However, wearing a mask and washing our hands in itself is a hefty task for us, let alone complying with all the SOPs. They say everyone gets what they deserve. It appears to be true in our case. While we continue to profit on the lives of people and play upon the anxieties of the citizens, we continue to seek Divine help which would put is out of our misery soon. We offer prayers with the same contentment even though the grains churning in our stomach have been earned by selling our souls.We, the people, are equally responsible for the alarming situation in our country and till such time that we are not prepared to step up and mend our ways, the situation doesn’t appear to be getting better anytime soon. Similarly, in the eyes of most past supporters, Imran Khan has not only been a disappointment but rather a disaster for this country."
Arif Nizami,Long hot summer…,2020-06-14,"The worst is yet to comeThe long hot summer of discontent is here. No matter what political views one holds, or whichever way one looks at it, there seems to be little light at the end of the tunnel.As apprehended, the coronavirus pandemic is now hitting the country with full force. And the worst is yet to come.Last Friday Pakistan broke its previous record of the highest single-day rise ever. With 130,000 plus cases and daily deaths from the virus exceeding 100 we have already surpassed China, the country now ranks 17th in Coronavirus cases globally.Not that the advent of Covid-19 in Pakistan is the government’s fault. The pandemic like the rest of the world had to hit Pakistan.The real challenge for the government in the upcoming financial year is how to jump-start the economy. It has given enough incentives to business and industry. What remains to be seen is whether they will bite or not.But the haphazard manner in which it has been tackled leaves much to be desired. Prime Minister Imran Khan, rightly upset with the public for not following the preventive SOPs, has warned that he will personally monitor the situation and will be tough on the people.Better late than never, but it’s like shutting the stable door after the horse has bolted.The government’s Coronavirus strategy at best can be termed as patchy, bordering on sheer incompetence. When initially a national lockdown was theoretically in place, it never was properly implemented. Khan always made it amply clear that he did not believe in shutdowns as they will deprive the teeming poor of their livelihood.Coupled with this, the Sindh government was consistently castigated by various federal and Punjab government spokesmen for insisting upon a lockdown. Hence, we had a lockdown that never was.True, that the majority of the populace is culturally and also, owing to sheer economic needs, not akin to staying home and follow proper safety measures. But did the government really have its heart in enforcing a lockdown? Of course not.Resultantly, we have had the worst of both worlds. People are dying at a much higher rate and at the same time (as is evident from latest figures) the economy is not reviving in a hurry. According to conservative estimates, the Coronavirus affectees number will exceed 200,000 by the end of this month as warned by the WHO (World Health Organisation) much earlier.And according to the Prime Minister himself, the peak is yet to come in July and August. In the meanwhile, Khan comfortably ensconced in his ivory tower surrounded by his Covid-19 team frequently addresses the nation, pontificating what a beautiful job his SAPM (special assistant to the prime minister) on health Zafar Mirza and his team is doing.In reality they are a couple of yes-men saving their jobs and refusing to state the bitter truth. Or maybe they do not know any better?The situation on the ground is dire. There is an acute shortage (or perhaps self-created by profiteers) of life saving medicines. And even if available they are at an exorbitant costs running into several lakhs. It is utter confusion worst confounded.If a citizen contracts the deadly disease, he has no idea where to go for treatment or who to go to. Most hospitals- including private hospitals with the limited beds they have allotted for Covid-19 patients- are bursting at their seams.The government is parroting its oft repeated mantra: ‘sab acha hai’ (all is well) and that everything is under control.Take the case of Budget 2020-21 presented with much fanfare. Read in conjunction with the Economic Survey it highlights the current state of the economy.Of course, it is very dismal. But the wily advisor on finance, Dr Hafeez Sheikh, has blamed it all on the previous government and the pandemic. The fact that the first nine months of the financial year, (July 2019 to March 2020) the pandemic had not yet hit the country, is conveniently papered over.Despite a number of exemptions and incentives there has been a sharp decline in economic activity like never before in the country’s history. Most economic indicators headed south during the financial year 2019-20. The GDP growth was negative at 0.38 per cent. But of course, the economic team did no wrong.The fact that the IMF’s (International Monetary Fund) EFF (Extended Fund Facility) was negotiated by the present team is simply overlooked.True, the economy was in dire straits when the present government took over in August 2019. But simply passing over the buck to the previous government simply does not fly.Why did the former IMF/World Bank economic team negotiate a deal programmed to slow down the economy and inhibit growth? High interest rates, aggressive depreciation of the rupee against the dollar and record inflation was a lethal combination to bring the economy further down.Dr Sheikh takes a lot of pride in not borrowing from the State Bank but does not fully explain why Pakistan had to take bilateral loans amounting to a humongous $12 billion during the tenure of the present government? This figure does not include the IMF facility or other loans taken from various international donors.Of course, the official explanation proffered is that had the government not borrowed the economy- left in tatters by its predecessor government- would have tanked.Industries minister Hammad Azhar presented a Rs 7.13 trillion annual budget on Friday. While no new taxes were imposed, he crowed about real or perceived achievements of the government during the outgoing fiscal year.He underscored 73per cent decline in current account deficit but conveniently ignored the fact that this was mainly owing to a sharp decline in imports rather than a perceptible increase in exports.Partly owing to an investment averse IMF programme followed by the pandemic, the large scale, small and medium size manufacturing sectors registered a negative growth and agriculture remained stagnant as well.The real challenge for the government in the upcoming financial year is how to jump-start the economy. It has given enough incentives to business and industry. What remains to be seen is whether they will bite or not.The growth target has been set at 2.1 per cent for the new financial year. But in the present backdrop it is expected to be in the negative. Similarly, setting a Rs 4.9 trillion tax revenue target might keep the IMF at bay for the time being, but is too ambitious.Another royal mess is the plight of the sugar industry. It had to take its case for relief to the Islamabad High court. The Chief justice of the IHC, Athar Minallah, only granted an interim stay for restraining the sugar commission to institute criminal proceedings against them on the undertaking from the sugar barons that they would sell sugar at Rs 70 per kilogram.As the special assistant the PM Shahzad Akbar had put it, the sugar industry was fleecing the consumer by creating cartels. But in his now signature vindictive style he lost sight of his stated goal to bring the sugar retail price down.Fuel shortages in the country are another feather in the government’s cap. As per his norm now, the PM expressed his anger at the oil companies for creating artificial shortages.If he looks closer at home a few members of his team primarily SAPM for oil and gas Nadeem Babar and related OGRA (Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority) officials should have been put on the mat. But accountability under the present power dispensation is solely for the opposition."
Web Desk,Prospect of E-Courts in Pakistan,2020-06-14,"By: Osama ZafarWhile I write this piece, the world is struck by a pandemic. Covid-19, which was first detected in Wuhan, China, and which has spread across the globe, wreaking havoc in Europe, USA and many other countries and is now peaking, especially in the Subcontinent. Pakistan has just officially surpassed China in terms of the total number of cases and is on track to surpass many more. Most of the countries have resorted to complete lockdowns while with countries like Pakistan and Sweden, the policy seems to be in line with achieving herd immunity. Most of the industries and businesses in Pakistan have been reopened after a brief lockdown, with instructions and SOPs from the government. Inevitably, litigation before the Court is also gaining normality as if there was no pandemic. While some of the businesses have gone completely online, with employees working from home and minimal presence in offices, the question arises, can we achieve the same with litigation?Countries such as the United Kingdom, India, Australia and UAE have shifted most of the Courts operations online to protect the lives of the litigants, lawyers and the judiciary. In Pakistan however, the lockdown has been lifted and Courts operate with preventive measures. On my recent visit to the Lahore High Court, I observed how crowded some of the Courts were, while some people wore masks, and some did not care to. Some of the judges, I observed, were very strict in keeping their Courts observant of SOPs while some were helpless. They had a handful of cases, litigants and lawyers to attend to and were too committed to their duty and could not be bothered by the pandemic at hand. One cannot really blame the judges, litigants or lawyers at this time, the Courts have never invested in, or planned, an alternate system. One has always been expected to physically go to Courts, whether litigant, lawyer or judge.In tough times such as we are in, smart nations learn, improvise, adapt and overcome. It seems we have not quite reached the smart nation status yet; some might even suggest that we are quite far off. In a world where covid-19 is expected to stay among us for at least two years; and with no vaccine; maybe even longer; businesses and industries are adapting. It is now imperative that the third pillar of the state makes an effort to uphold the rule of law and ensure access to justice without putting people’s lives at risk.E-Courts seem to be the only solution. But what are E-Courts? And will they successfully work in Pakistan? Firstly, E-Court is an electronic-Court through which Judges can adjudicate upon matters. The Lawyers can join and present their arguments; however, the execution will be a bit complex. There are different procedures in place for civil and criminal matters in Pakistan. Civil matters, which predominantly concern disputes regarding commercial, taxation, property, tort, family, employment matters, could be dealt with through E-Courts in the High Courts and Supreme Court but in civil and session Courts, where lawyers and litigants have to conduct evidence through examination-in-chief and cross-examination, the same would prove to be a grave task. Making technology accessible to the witnesses would prove very difficult and allocating resources for the same would realistically be impossible. Everyone does not have access to technology in Pakistan and the masses cannot be expected to appear for examinations online; this is furthered by the uncertainty internet connectivity issues bring to the table. However, for witnesses who have access to technology, an option may be provided for online examination. If the Judges are available online, some E-Systems such as PCs or tablets can be installed in Civil and Sessions Courts which may only be used practicing strict social distancing measures.For criminal matters, evidence proceedings can possibly be made online. For execution, police and other law enforcement agencies such as NAB can make available the technology within prisons and police stations, and the witnesses may join the online room where lawyers and judge are present. This is very much a possibility, but effort is required on part of law enforcement agencies and courts.The main challenge lies for the judges and lawyers to be brought on the same platform with regards to E-Courts. Many of the judges are old-fashioned and it would be difficult for them to be equipped with latest technology. The same can be said for lawyers. Some of the lawyers might not be able to afford such technology, but in these testing times an investment in a decent laptop and an internet connection would be worthwhile their practice. Also, I am of the view the number of lawyers who would not have access to a PC or smartphone with an internet would be minimal.I recommend that the judiciary uses their invaluable institution of Judicial Academies all across Pakistan to educate the judiciary on E-Courts. They may conduct workshops on the use of software. Microsoft Teams for instance is a reliable and secure software which allows several members to join an online room for a video conference and allows people to share documents and even screen-share. They can even come up with their own software, but this would be time consuming and costly. The Bar Councils and Bar Associations can also arrange for online workshops for lawyers to train them in this manner as well.Internet connectivity may also be assured, Courts can contract with different service providers to provide free or subsidised internet to the lawyers for making E-Courts effective.Filing is still being done physically. Lawyers or clerks have to submit papers in filing branches of courts for effecting filing. It is suggested that an effective and secure e-filing system may be established on the court websites. This would not only curb the environmental detriment of paper filing but will make the system efficient, and free from human error. I would urge that even when the world returns to normality, and approaching public places such as courts becomes possible, the e-filing system remains intact for its efficiency.These are difficult times and require extraordinary measures. We cannot sit idle and risk our lives. Justice is important but if we do not change our ways, obtaining Justice will cost valuable lives. E-Courts are the necessity of the time and immediate measures must be taken to make it a reality in Pakistan.The writer can be reached at [email protected]And tweets @Osama_Zafarr"
Raoof Hasan,Weighing words in coins,2020-06-14,"Is the decline temporary, or has the malady sunk in deep?If they take away my ink and penGrieve I shall notFor I have dipped my fingersIn my heart’s bloodIf they seal my tongueComplain I shall notFor the links of every chainShall recite my wordsAdapted from Faiz Ahmed FaizThe first time I had an urge to write, I was very young and had little idea of the importance of either the written or the spoken word. For me, writing was just a means of venting my pent-up emotions. It was much later in life that I began to associate my words with the cause of ideas and convictions. There has been no looking back ever since.Moving ahead in life, I discovered that, within and outside the ambit of the profession, words were also offered for sale. Ideas and convictions had nothing to do with this travesty which reflected one’s lust for money and an effort to gain some relevance, political or otherwise. But, I thought that such people would constitute only a tiny minority of the tribe of journalists.But, no, there were further shocks in store. I learnt to my absolute angst that the buying and selling of words, of the written and the spoken varieties, was a widespread affliction. It was just like trading in other commodities. Ideas and convictions were not the drivers of words any longer. Only money was, and entire opinion pieces in newspapers and prime-time programmes on television, were up for sale for the right price.The profession of journalism commands sanctity and stature. Both have been contaminated in exchange for abominable pursuits of a clique of merchants. Left to them, they would dispose of the entire profession if it would suit their lustful desires and their demeaning indulgences.Even later in life I discovered that these ugly mansions, these grandiose pretensions of being important, these desperate overtures to manoeuvre credibility were the masks to hide the filth and ugliness inside, and that this trade was not really new. It dated back to all such times when people nurtured similar aims and ambitions. They purchased words to camouflage their shame and bloated affectations by gratifying the sordid ambitions of the tribe of journalists with a few coins so as to advance their selfish objectives.It was Faiz who wrote about the need and impact of words even in oppressive times: “Speak for thy lips are free, speak for thy tongue is still yours…”. There are other poets and writers who defied tyranny and repression with bold and meaningful invocations which changed the course of history and humankind. Their words will forever remain embedded in human memory with our heads bowed in gratitude. The dark night of autocracy would have lasted longer if these brave voices had not come forth, weaving magic with their writings.Words command immense power. Words have raised empires. Words have nurtured dynasties. Words have marshalled armies, initiated wars and woven the peace thread. Words have inspired a spate of creativity and bred phenomenal progress. But, words have wrought mayhem and destruction also, annihilated civilisations and bared the demonic lust and greed among people. Empires have perished at their calling and dynasties have surrendered to their might. Words are powerful and this power has been at play in multiple ways through centuries. Human beings have been both the creators of this power as well as the victims of its wrath.But, one had never witnessed the demeaning of the written and spoken word like it has been consistently on display these days. Words are no longer vehicles for promoting humankind’s progressive and creative faculties. Instead, they hang like albatrosses around their necks because the writers have surrendered before their ingrained greed and callousness. They no longer put their faith in the efficacy of words. They exploit its purchasing prowess instead by sacrificing their integrity at the altar of securing their respective pound of flesh. Is the decline temporary, or has the malady sunk in deep? I say this because, without establishing the sanctity of the written and spoken word, there is no way we could move forward along a civilised path. We would only wander off into the boondocks, lost for direction and purpose both. This is the course which the merchants of words have clearly opted for.Faraz had likened words with dreams. Yes, words weave dreams which show direction to humankind to accomplish their destiny. But, what kind of destiny have we opted for: a destiny which these vile merchants are trying to forge at the cost of our character, integrity and ethos? It is not by selling our dreams that we would progress and flourish. Instead, it is by reclaiming our dreams and our heritage.An earnest movement is required to shake off this apparel of respectability which these ugly merchants of words have wrapped around themselves to hide the corrupt instinct which has put us on course to depravity. We cannot take a path chiselled by the illicit bounties delivered by this crooked cartel selling their words for cash or kind. They are to be shamed. The path to salvation is not in their company. That would only spell ignominy for the whole profession.From Faiz’s words of defiance to contemporary coinages sold for varied inducements, it has been one humiliating fall. The power of words is now manipulated by a bunch of intellectual parasites, nibbling away at the ethos of their profession. It has been hijacked by a group of self-anointed pontiffs who sit every evening before the cameras, fabricating stories that would suit their pockets rather than the ethical code governing their job. The edifice of journalism which had been raised by some stalwarts of the profession has crumbled before the greed and callousness of those who sit at the helm at this critical juncture. They have no reason to be there. They have no professional or moral integrity. They belong in the pit.A profession rooted in bias and prejudice cannot be a pillar of the state. It breeds hatred and divisions in a society which is already tottering on the brink. It needs healing, not further fragmentation. These merchants of words preaching hate must go. They have no role in the process of putting the country together by ensuring welfare for the suffering communities which have languished on the fringes of life.The problem is visible. The cause is known. It is for those who still care about the profession, and are mindful of maintaining its sanctity, to also prescribe the prognosis. The time is now. Any further delay would irreversibly compromise the ideals which are still espoused by a large number of adherents of this profession.It is not going to be easy because these merchants of deceit possess a saleable commodity. So, in addition to nullifying myriad temptations, it is the lure of the illicit bounty that has to be resisted. It can be done by reiterating the foundational ethics of the profession and ensuring that these are not compromised by the deviants.The profession of journalism commands sanctity and stature. Both have been contaminated in exchange for abominable pursuits of a clique of merchants. Left to them, they would dispose of the entire profession if it would suit their lustful desires and their demeaning indulgences.The words you write reflect your soul. You cannot sell your soul for a share in the loot. Let us hope that the profession will bounce back by ousting these demons whose continued presence within its folds has been infectious, with the society bearing the brunt of the scourge."
Web Desk,Why the environmental impact on Thar cluster in CREA report is exaggerated,2020-06-13,"The study seems ill informedBy: Farhad ShahidThe first of the Thar coal power projects and associated mines were commissioned in July 2019 as priority national projects, and since then have been fulfilling the requirement of base load power generation– which is the minimum level of demand on an electrical grid over a span of time. The supply of electricity to th national grid from Thar is a significant achievement given that it provides an indigenous fuel resource and curtails our reliance on foreign fuel.Thar Coal, discovered in 1992 and the worlds seventhth largest coal reserves, can generate up to 100,000MW of electricity for many decades. Pakistan remained indebted to imported energy fuel sources whereas the Thar coal project remained dormant for almost two decades, resulting in chronic power shortage, expensive electricity, substantial forex outflow for imported fuels and loss of GDP. In this backdrop and carrying the burden of hope of 220 million Pakistanis, the project developers took a leap of faith and laid the foundation for indigenous, affordable and economical power, providing much needed energy security to the country. The cluster of power projects and mines in Tharparkar are not only a pioneering project for Pakistan but also present a model for a successful public-private partnership where the role of the federal and Sindh governments cannot be understated in providing the ancillary services needed to complete the projects on time as early-harvest projects of the CPEC initiative.The report, titled ‘Air quality, health and toxic impacts of the proposed coal mining and power cluster in Thar, Pakistan’ issued by Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air, however, does not take into account the complete environmental, economic and social aspects of the projects. It is important to highlight that the mine and coal-fired power projects have been designed, developed and are being executed and operated under all applicable regulatory environmental guidelines. Based on the studies conducted by reputable international consultants, these projects were designed to comply not only with the Sindh Environmental Quality Standards (SEQS) as a mandatory requirement but also voluntarily are compliant with IFC emission and air quality standards.Is this report another targeted attempt to malign and hijack the country’s attempt to secure its energy mix by utilizing its indigenous energy sources and make it remain subservient to the international fuel lobby? The current covid-19 pandemic has already exposed vulnerability of countries depending on imported energy sources and the need for developing indigenous energy resources in countries like Pakistan cannot be overlooked.Moreover, monitoring of air quality from nearby villages and areas (conducted by independent monitoring consultants) also show minimal incremental impact of emissions which are within allowable limits. Despite this, continued studies are being undertaken by the project developers to understand the long-term impact on the air quality in and around the projects while ensuring use of best available control technologies and operational excellence so that all such emissions remain well within the provincial, national and IFC limits.Moving on to the research conducted by the authors the report claims that the cluster of Thar coal-fired power plants could expose around 100,000 people to harmful emissions exceeding safe limits and 29,000 people could allegedly die from air-pollution-related causes over the 30-year operating life of the plants. These claims and analyses are based on just one desktop study, using predictive numbers and data models not been tested or validated by actual Thar data. The first of the power plants was commissioned just 10 months ago and hence a proper health impact assessment needs to be done to determine the on-ground effects of emissions. The study does not present any definitive data on what health assessments have been undertaken specifically in Thar on existing causes of death; and while the report focuses on the cluster of power parks in Thar, it mistakenly uses data from the rest of Pakistan to extrapolate its effects in Thar, which is both misleading and an incorrect approach.Secondly, the claims and value judgements in the report seem to have been made without taking into account the ground reality. Thar is a semi-arid desert region which historically has had a relatively poor air quality index due to sparse vegetation and arid topography further deteriorated due to sand-storms and dry weather. Resultantly, Thar has traditionally shown high baseline numbers for PM2.5 concentrations, and this is not just true for Thar but also for other key cities in Pakistan. Take the example of Jamshoro, where naturally occurring particulate matter concentration in the air has generally been high– does this make the case that there should be no industrialization in such cities, or the government needs to relocate entire populations? No, the answer lies in the fact that, for such regions, a baseline is first established and then projects are evaluated on their incremental impact on air quality. Hence, it is very important to look at the incremental impacts these projects pose on the air quality of the surrounding region, and for that a detailed EIA and ESIA has to be conducted prior to project execution which adequately covers the baseline air quality parameters as well as incremental PM2.5 and PM10 emissions. All projects in Thar Coal fields have conducted ESIA studies followed by public hearings and approved by SEPA expert committees, prior to starting construction.Thirdly, the report alleges that “the proposed plants would constitute one of the largest air pollutant, mercury and carbon dioxide (CO2) emission hotspots in South Asia”; whch again is an exaggeration not reflecting reality. The data used for the environmental modelling is not in line with the power plant’s actual design data and hence the results do not reflect the true picture. Additionally, the report ignores the special type of Thar Coal– lignite– as well as utilization of CFB technology which when taken into account would show the emissions data to be in compliance with environmental regulations. The report makes assumption for operations of the power stations contrary to their technology; for instance for the mercury absorption in the boilers an assumption is made pertinent to Pulverized Coal boilers for all clusters which is not the case for projects planned in Thar. Unlike PC boilers, the CFB boilers are expected a to have higher rate of absorption for mercury emissions as part of the ash rather than predominantly being released into the air in gaseous form.Fourthly, the report adopts the position that coal is not ‘economically sustainable’ for Pakistan with renewables being the country’s cheapest energy source. While the cost of renewable electricity has come down in recent years, intermittency means they can only be substituted up to a point, given the country’s continuous requirement of power. Given that baseload cannot be entirely replaced by renewables at this stage and hydel is seasonal, one has to carefully consider the thermal options available to Pakistan and look at the country’s energy mix. Pakistan is a net energy importer with about 30 percent of its import bill, fuel. This is why while making its economic case, the report fails to distinguish between Thar coal and imported coal, masking one of the key advantages of Thar coal, that it is an indigenous resource. Experts estimate that at full capacity the Thar power cluster will save $1 billion annually in foreign exchange. Versus imported coal, this saving will be $700 million.CREA’s biased approach shows in its claim that ‘coal is fast becoming the fuel of the past globally’, which is incorrect. The New Energy Outlook 2019 released by Bloomberg reports that planned additions of coal-fired power plant include over 200,000MW in China; over 51,000 MW in India; almost 11,000 MW in Japan and approximately 27,000MW elsewhere, utoto 2025.Lastly, a crucial element largely ignored by the study is the positive externalities created. Significant socio-economic benefits have been created in the local communities in the form of provision of local employment; skills-based training programmes; improved public infrastructure; availability of clean drinking water; and civic services (including hospitals, clinics & school network). It is primarily due to these socio-economic benefits that the Thar coal projects have been appreciated across the board both nationally and internationally.Is this report another targeted attempt to malign and hijack the country’s attempt to secure its energy mix by utilizing its indigenous energy sources and make it remain subservient to the international fuel lobby? The current covid-19 pandemic has already exposed vulnerability of countries depending on imported energy sources and the need for developing indigenous energy resources in countries like Pakistan cannot be overlooked."
Web Desk,Colonial administrative attitudes and laws must be purged,2020-06-13,"The government must watch civil servants carefullyBy: Waleed BabarIn a recent incident, the Deputy Commissioner Bagh, a District of Pakistani Administered Jammu Kashmir, was found misbehaving and torturing an innocent cab driver on charges of overtaking him during travel.Charges don’t constitute an offence. Even if they did, the DC lacks the authority to punish someone on spot. A different hierarchy of courts has been established for the purpose of assessing guilt or innocence of the accused. This incident purportedly was a violation of a traffic laws, which carries a maximum imposition of a limited fine. Despite the fact we’re not living in the 17th century, where lords and their servants could still treat people like beasts, the deputy commissioner acted in the same way as trained by his predecessor colonial rulers, to make people subservient.He didn’t restrain himself and went further to satisfy his ego. The victim was beaten up terribly by police with the personal direction and presence of the DC at the spot. A false FIR was than lodged against him and he was forcibly thrown into jail, and released a day later by paying an amount.Local activists who raised this issue utilizing social media, particularly Facebook, were also ensnared in trumped-up and frivolous charges. Another report received from Thorar, a Tehsil of District Rawalakot, indicates a political activist was also caught via cooked up charges because he dared to protest against an SHO of the police, who had been found abusing his power.It is very unfortunate that the bureaucracy and civil servants, whose prime duty is to maintain law and order, and keep peace and tranquility in a society, are engaged in such heinous violations of fundamental rights. The bureaucracy and civil administration, who draw their salaries from the money of taxpayers, act like masters. Their training, standards, education and even governing laws are still most outdated. It would be appropriate to see them as instruments of the colonial era. That was a time when the colonial authorities found it necessary to oppress a conquered population with ultimate rudeness, arbitrary powers and iron hands.Ominously, after the passing of 73 years after so-called Independence, successive governments had miserably failed to initiate any substantive changes in laws governing the bureaucracy. Even the uniform, monograms, slogans, training and investigation methods and so on, remain the same as those introduced by the British.Readers might be astonished to know that the Punjab Police (others as well), still maintains a scurrilous chapter in its course, during higher rank training, which prepares them on how to deal with the general public disrespectfully. It is a common experience that the bureaucracy prefers to maintain a state of seclusion from the public.The government should formulate a “National Law Reforms Commission”, so as to identify the harsh continuities between our present legal system and colonial laws – and then relinquish all those laws which are not in conformity with or are repugnant to international norms of human rights and dignity. This would include a general policy that any civil servant found behaving in a particularly idiosyncratic, rude, arbitrary, subversive or abusive manner towards the public will have to lose his or her jobWhenever such incidents happen, they generate some outrage but eventually the public moves on to the next issue. Our history is full of bureaucratic misbehaviour, abuse of power or process and arbitrary actions, yet no substantive changes have been introduced when it comes to amending the old fashioned Civil Servant Act.Although I am not, in general, a supporter of suo motu actions, I still believe that judicial intervention in a matter relating to gross violation of rudimentary rights is justified. The courts shouldn’t let such incidents go unaddressed, which are prejudicial and detrimental to the public’s rights. In fact, the courts should be more curious regarding the ambiguities, loopholes and flaws that provide a safe avenue from liabilities under the pretext of immunity.The government should formulate a “National Law Reforms Commission”, so as to identify the harsh continuities between our present legal system and colonial laws – and then relinquish all those laws which are not in conformity with or are repugnant to international norms of human rights and dignity. This would include a general policy that any civil servant found behaving in a particularly idiosyncratic, rude, arbitrary, subversive or abusive manner towards the public will have to lose his or her job.The general public will also have to be more proactive: maintaining a social, political and moral pressure over governmental, electoral, judicial, administrative and local authorities to redress injustices and abandon the old colonizers’ policies. It would be unrealistic to expect massive changes until we begin to achieve small victories."
Qudssia Akhlaque,Corona explosion: learn to live and die with it!,2020-06-13,"When livelihoods take precedence over livesIt’s official now. Pakistan is in the midst of a coronavirus explosion. Hospitals in all urban centres have run out of capacity and major hospitals are unable to admit even critical Coronavirus patients. Covid-19 cases are rapidly spiking just as are deaths caused by it. The situation is now out of control but the federal government is basking in denial.Prime Minister Imran Khan has ruled out all calls for another lockdown by senior doctors and the World Health Organization experts while his Special Assistant on Health, Dr. Zafar Mirza, insists the situation is “under control”. So the PM is not willing to go beyond ‘smart’ lockdown. As always, the media is being blamed for creating panic and unnecessary hype. Clearly the Imran Khan-led PTI government values livelihood more than human lives. Since last week Pakistan is setting daily records of Covid-19 infections and deaths. During the past 24 hours Pakistan recorded 6,321 new cases and nearly 100 deaths taking the total confirmed cases to 123,493 and fatalities to 2,409.Medical practitioners and experts had repeatedly forewarned of this eventuality in April when the government decided to give the green light for congregational prayers during Ramazan. The government chose to pay no heed and we are now paying the price. The decision was followed by other wrong populist decisions and then the apex court’s May 18 order, lambasting essentially the Sindh government’s insistence on maintaining limiting commercial activity, made matters worse.The first case of coronavirus was reported in Pakistan on February 26 and to this day there has been political bickering over the issue. Federal and provincial governments have failed to formulate a unified response to contain this deadly virus.From the very outset the threat of this disease has been downplayed by a person no less than the Prime Minister who likened it to a passing flu. “Aap nay ghabrana nahin,” had been his overriding message to the nation after the coronavirus surfaced in Pakistan or rather was officially acknowledged in late February. Subsequently it was his then information SAPM Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan who came up with the officially certified key message: “Corona say darna nahi, larna hai.” The phrase caught on but with it the much-needed caution went flying out the window. And this put the majority of people off guard. They took it literally and were out on streets and public places as if to take on the virus! All fear was abandoned and hardly any precautions taken. The message was catchy but not thought through. It could have been better phrased to underline more emphatically the need for precaution which was critical at that time when the coronavirus was beginning to spread its wings in Pakistan.As worried and desperate frontline doctors cry out for additional essential protective gear, and medical equipment including ventilators, oxygen and testing kits, government officials mechanically churn out figures at daily news briefings to brag about their performance. Time will tell how much of it was fact and how much fiction. The gravity of the situation is being drowned in the daily feeds of cold statistics and data released by the National Command and Operations Centre (NCOC) to the media. Data on the number of tests being conducted, ICU beds and oxygen facility in hospitals country-wide. Figures regarding non-compliance with SOPs for Covid-19 containment, violations observed, shops sealed, industries closed, vehicles impounded and fines imposed for violators of the SOPs etc. etc. Bravo! But the question here is has all this really helped contain the spread of this disease.The message from our top leadership (for now) is that it will only ensure stricter enforcement of SOPs and has urged people to be more responsible. Dr Mirza believes this will come through a behavioral change in the masses, as if in this health emergency we have the luxury of time to wait for the miracle to happen! So the PM has announced to launch his Corona Tigers– the untrained and inexperienced youth force- to aid the local administration. Going by the PTI government’s grand plans and misadventures, this force is more likely to become part of the problemWhile there is much talk about provision of additional ventilators to the hospitals, the fact is that there are not enough qualified technicians to operate these complex life-support machines. Probably this could be one reason why still 50 percent of ventilators in hospitals remain unused. This figure was given by the SAPM on Health this week.Senior doctors including Professor Dr Javed Akram, vice chancellor of the University of Medical Sciences, have been flagging the point that operating ventilators is a highly complex task and if the oxygen and other vitals are not maintained at the right level, these can be fatal. That it could result in 100 per cent fatalities in patients on ventilators. Perhaps that explains why the recovery rate of patients on ventilators is dismal. Official data suggests 80 to 90 percent of corona patients on ventilators do not survive.The actual super spreaders in Pakistan seem to be those advising and blowing the government’s trumpet, and above all the pied pipers who gave the go-ahead to relax restrictions. The lockdown virtually ended in May to open the floodgates to the unpredictable and lethal virus that has already gobbled up more than 423,000 human lives globally. And then not to forget the hyper judicial activism with the Supreme Court of Pakistan stepping in to order opening of all shops and malls even on weekends just prior to Eidul Fitr. The argument advanced by the honorable Chief Justice was that all days are the same!Instructions for strict enforcement of the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) regarding precautionary measures were also given. However, this ruling coming on the heels of Eid and after an extended lockdown was like telling the public to dive into a huge swimming pool but not to swim! So what happened next is no secret. People declared war on markets and malls as if corona was an illusion and SOPs just a formality. Public transport is back on roads and the government has now also opened the doors for tourism. Another matter that petrol has become a rare commodity.This week the World Health Organization (WHO) also issued a stern warning to Pakistan that it is now well into the danger zone of corona infections spiraling by the minute. WHO has advised immediate intermittent two-week lockdown. On Wednesday Dr. Javed Akram went a step further and appealed to the federal government to impose a curfew in the wake of alarmingly fast spread of the coronavirus that has over-burdened entire healthcare system with crippling effect. Pakistan eased restrictions even before waiting for the international prerequisite of flattening of the curve, sufficient testing capacity and developing proper surveillance systems. Relaxation in the lockdown was announced even before the beastly virus had peaked. Initially we were told the virus would peak in June but now the PM says it is expected in July or August. That we better learn to live (and die) with it, as all calls for a re-imposition of a lockdown have fallen on deaf ears.The message from our top leadership (for now) is that it will only ensure stricter enforcement of SOPs and has urged people to be more responsible. Dr Mirza believes this will come through a behavioral change in the masses, as if in this health emergency we have the luxury of time to wait for the miracle to happen! So the PM has announced to launch his Corona Tigers– the untrained and inexperienced youth force- to aid the local administration. Going by the PTI government’s grand plans and misadventures, this force is more likely to become part of the problem.We are living in strange, surreal times. Many are beginning to despair as the coronavirus pandemic refuses to go away. Mankind can never decode the Divine design. It is beyond human perception. But there is always hope in the Divine Writ. Solace and strength can be drawn from the recurring message of patience, prayer and perseverance in the Holy Quran.“O you who have attained to faith! Seek aid in steadfast patience and prayer: for behold, God is with those who are patient in adversity…” (Surah Baqarah)"
M A Niazi,The bull is always in the china shop,2020-06-12,"The USA was at risk of a coupAT PENPOINTPerhaps the strongest reason why martial law cannot be imposed in the USA was in the reaction to the clearing of protesters in Washington, DC. The condemnation of this action is one of the key moments of the current spate of protests against the killing in Minneapolis of George Floyd by policemen, not just by opposition politicians but also by retired officers.The serving Defence Secretary, Mike Esper, was not so forthright in his disagreement with the President he was supposed to serve, but he did say that active duty troops should not be used to maintain order. Esper was doubly significant, as he was not just the head of the military, and thus key to any takeover, but was himself a retired officer.One of those who reminded his juniors of their duty to the Constitution was Gen (retd) Colin Powell, an ex-Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee and later Secretary of State. Another former Chairman, Adm (retd) Mike Mullen, also spoke out. Perhaps more damaging for Trump were Gen (retd) James Mattis and Gen (retd) John Kelly. Mattis had been Trump’s Secretary of Defence before resigning and Kelly successively his Secretary of Homeland Security and Chief of Staff.It almost seemed as if the USA was getting a taste of its own medicine. The USA had favoured military dictatorships in South America after World War II, and had used military rulers in Pakistan, Turkey, Indonesia and Thailand to get them to participate in CENTO and SEATO. After decades of a certain racism, in which ‘lesser breeds without the law’ were denied the benefits of democracy, it seemed that the USA itself was about to be subjected to military rule.Apart from the concern with the Constitution, there seems to be an objection to be anybody’s tool, to prop up the regime of anyone trying to use the military though he did not have a popular mandate.It must not be forgotten that the US President is the Commander-in-Chief. Though so is the Pakistani, as he acts only on PM’s advice, it is the latter who exercises the power. However, there are significant differences. The US President makes promotions to senior ranks. There have been attempts do so by Pakistani PMs, but they have been fiercely resented.The USA’s best defence against a coup is that it is unacceptable to the people, while there is some acceptability in Pakistani society. Those who have no other route to power favour it Unfortunately for Americans, a class is growing that sees no way of keeping the liberals out of power. They might develop into a support group for a military coup. The danger is that the current President is one of themThe only time the Pakistan military was used extensively as a law-enforcing agency, in 1977, ended badly. When the Chief of Army Staff, and the rest of the armed forces, developed the perception that Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto was using the military to stay in power, the COAS took over as CMLA. If the military had to keep anyone in power, why not one of its own?The immediate US problem would be who would benefit. The Chairman Joint Chiefs, the COAS or one of the Command commanders-in-chief? Whereas all three of Pakistan’s armed forces are responsible only to their chiefs, US armed forces do not report to them. Instead, the troops are assigned to one of the dozen Commands, which have a commander-in-chief reporting to the President through the Chairman and the Defence Secretary, bypassing the service chief. To take an example, the Commander-in-Chief of the Pacific Command (always a four-star admiral) has in addition to the naval forces commander, the land force and air force commanders reporting to him for all operational matters. The last time Pakistan had a joint command was in 1971, when the GOC-in-C Eastern Command had the naval and PAF forces subordinated to him. That enterprise did not end well.The USA does not have as dominant a service as Pakistan, whose Army dwarfs the others. Ruling the country would require a mixture, something like what has happened in Nigeria, where naval and air force officers have been provincial governors.That is another issue a US coup-maker would have. It would not be enough to take over the capital. Actually, it isn’t in Pakistan either, but four corps are headquartered in the provincial headquarters, and there is a centralised provincial bureaucracy in each which controls the whole province. In the USA, not every state has a military base, and taking over the state capital would not bring a controlling bureaucracy. So many functions of government are devolved to county and municipality levels that they would need to be taken over, thus rendering the task that much difficult.Another reason for needing control over them is that is where the police forces are directed. There is no higher direction, as in Pakistan, where there are four provincial police forces. The police is an armed force not under the control of the military, and thus if the civilian government was to turn to other forces after military action, the Police is a logical contender. Then there are the National Guards, state militias under the governors, which have no Pakistani equivalent. One advantage the US military has is that former military personnel have joined the police. This is not case in Pakistan.One big difference was that the US armed forces were based on conscription, while Pakistan had almost entirely career soldiers. Pakistani military men believe that conscripts make poor soldiers, but a French brigadier once said to this writer that, “You can’t carry out a coup with conscripts.” He meant that conscripts were less likely to follow orders blindly. For a conscript, military life was a blip in a largely civilian life, not his career. Career soldiers are likelier to follow an order from a duly constituted superior without questioning its legality. However, now the US armed forces are all-volunteer. A coup would thus be easier.One safeguard against a coup was that the issue of Floyd’s killing also resonated in the US military, which has many people from ethnic minorities. General Powell reflected that as the first black Chairman. Service is also a path to citizenship. It is favoured by some Hispanics. However, racism was part of the military, especially in the officer corps. While it would be wrong to say that it has white supremacists, the military attracts recruits from the Deep South, where white supremacy and neo—Nazism find their best recruits.The USA’s best defence against a coup is that it is unacceptable to the people, while there is some acceptability in Pakistani society. Those who have no other route to power favour it. Unfortunately for Americans, a class is growing that sees no way of keeping the liberals out of power. They might develop into a support group for a military coup. The danger is that the current President is one of them.The precedent is old, but should not be ignored. Napoleon Bonaparte, a nephew of the famous Emperor, was elected the first ever president of France in 1848 for a single term. He carried out a coup in 1852 and became Emperor as Napoleon III. But Trump should remember that Napoleon III got 73 percent of the vote in 1848. However, Trump has shown that he is continuing on the path of undermining US democracy, a path which led Rome from democratic city-state to autocratic empire."
Web Desk,‘Kemalism’ as the ultimate response,2020-06-12,"BY: Saad SattiAmidst a National Health catastrophe it is hard to believe that the closure of mosques could ignite incessant debates every night on national television. Self-styled muftis and allamas are wreaking havoc on an illiterate population, as there are in Pakistan, by using religion as a commodity. This stark reality marginalizes our attention towards the question; Was Pakistan meant to be a Secular or an Islamic state?Contrastingly, Turkey was fortunate enough to answer this question through the reformist agenda put forward by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, which paved way for the tolerant and pluralistic Turkish masses. The rise of Turkey from the disintegration of the Ottoman Empire is largely owed to ‘Kemalism’ with secularism at the heart of this reformist agenda.Coming back to Pakistan, the death of Jinnah right after independence obscurely varnished the answer to the aforementioned question. This haziness has not only resulted in a confused national mindset but it has also allowed rulers such as Zia and Musharraf to play the religion card in the shape of their respective “Islamization” and “Moderate Enlightenment” agendas to fool the masses for personal gains. This augmented the over all power and stature of the religious clergy in the Pakistani society.Rationality is usually chucked in the bin as charismatic clerics constantly seek to defend their endangered position in the social hierarchy. The opposition to introduction of scientific methods to sight the moon is but only a reflection of the narrow mindedness of the ‘celebrity clerics’ who claim to be the champions of a dynamic religion like Islam that promises to evolve with time through Ijtihad.Traditionalism is often linked to Islam because that is what helps the ‘maulvi sahib’ to generate legitimacy for his so called holy journey. The criminal silence of the clerics on issues pertaining to economic, social and ethical responsibilities is a depiction of the question that was left unanswered by our freedom fighters.This makes one realize that the Pakistani society has become subservient to the myopic vision of the religious clergy. Why is that only a bearded man is capable of telling us what ‘real’ religion means? The moral policing by Pakistanis of Esra Bilgic, more commonly known as Halime Sultan from the famous Turkish serial is an apt example of the judgmental mindset that exists.However, Quaid’s speeches after independence indicate a different story altogether. “You may belong to any religion or caste or creed…that has nothing to do with the business of the State… We are all citizens of a state… in the course of the time, Hindus would cease to be Hindus, and Muslims would cease to be Muslims, not in the religious sense, because that is the personal faith of each individual, but in the political sense, as citizens of the State.” These excerpts from Quaid’s historic speech, three days before independence, are one of the clearest expositions of a secular state. Unfortunately, the Quaid could not live long to actualize this dream, leaving the country in a state marred by a strict Islamic ideology.On the contrary, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk ensured that secularism was a dominant feature of the Turkish society. From the ban on traditional Turkish hats to the adoption of modern scientific methods, Kemalism changed the very fabric of the Turkish society. Kemalist secularism did not merely mean detachment of state and religion but also the latters separation from educational, cultural and legal affairs. The Kemalist revolution guaranteed protection from traditionalism and practice in the name of religion that was earlier used to hamper a nation’s individual or collective way of life.Kemalism, often stamped as a pro-western ideology, is in reality the adoption of a basic principle stated in the Holy Quran- that there is no compulsion in religion- which illuminates the idea of the individual and his or her own spiritual self in the approach to God. Spiritual individualism reaffirms the idea that no institution, not even the state should come in between the individual and his or her God. This is the secularism offered by Kemalism in a nutshell.The saphire waters of bosphorous offer a view of two co-existent realities of Turkey. I point my fingers not towards the segregated borders of Europe and Asia but towards the existence of spectacularly breathtaking mosques on one side and the dense population of nightlife establishments on the other. It is left upon the citizens of Turkey to either opt for a “night out” or be enchanted by spiritual cleansing. One could argue that secular Turkey is far more Islamic in spirit than the Islamic Republic of Pakistan as the average Turk understands that whether you are a good Muslim or bad, it is none of his business!Pakistan must learn from its Muslim brothers and adopt a more secular approach. If this happens, Pakistan, like Turkey, will not only be better positioned within the Muslim world, it will also not lose its Muslim identity. Had Jinnah lived longer, he might have succeeded in emulating Kemalism in Pakistan, way back in the 1950s—an ideology which one might be terming today as ‘Jinnahism’.Religious tolerance and liberal thinking must be ensured in order for the state to thrive. The unchecked role of the religious clergy must be checked through increased scrutiny of fatwas. Furthermore, Traditionalism must be delinked with Islam by adopting modern scientific methods in rural and urban areas, as suggested by Sir Syed Ahmed Khan, more than hundred years ago. When the Constitution of Pakistan highlights the fact that “sovereignty belongs to Allah”, then why does the average Pakistani submit to the pressure and hidden agendas of the orthodox clergy?If Jinnah were to visit his country today, would he be pleased to see the present role of religious clergy in the state of politics and society- or utterly disappointed?The author is a lawyer based in Islamabad.Email: [email protected]HIGHLIGHTED PART: “One could argue that secular Turkey is far more Islamic in spirit than the Islamic Republic of Pakistan as the average Turk understands that whether you are a good Muslim or bad, it is none of his business!”"
Falak Sher Khan,Impact of Covid-19 on Pakistan economy,2020-06-12,"All sectors are affectedInitially in Pakistan, recorded covid-19 cases were few but now they are mounting and we are not prepared for a situation like Spain or Italy. It has spread to all developing countries and their health-care arrangements are in no position to handle this crisis. Many such countries cannot contain pre-existing infectious diseases; Dengue and polio are such examples in Pakistan. As per reports, health spending per head in Pakistan is 1:200th the level of the USA. The government has requested the masses to avoid social contact and wear mask but seldom are any SOPs observed. The virus is spreading and a potential vaccine is expected in 12 to 18 months. According to data analysts 30 to 60 percent of the population will be infected without strict measures.Hospitals, doctors and health workers still lack proper equipment in Pakistan. Data collected from the Health Ministry shows that 21 medical professionals have passed away of covid-19 till date. More than 1904 medical practitioners were tested positive, which includes 1035 doctors, 299 nurses and 570 other healthcare staff. An alarming situation for a country which has a ratio of 38 physicians to 10,000 people and a meagre 120 hospital beds per 10,000. According to Special Assistant to PM on Health, coronavirus local transmission level is 92 percent. The stress of staying house-bound is also taking its toll on the mental health of families. Increased cases of depression and panic attacks have been reported in the past one month than ever before. With more than 100 coronavirus vaccines under research, scientists are positive that at least one will be successful. Still even if a vaccine is developed it will not be an easy task to make it widely available. “The requirement to scale up to the kinds of numbers we’re talking about within the short time-frame that we’re speaking about would be an extraordinary effort,” says Emilio Emini, who has been working on vaccines for decades at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Providing billions of doses of vaccine to every corner of the world is easier said than done. We will need special equipment such as bioreactor, a huge tank that allows microorganisms to grow in a cultivated environment. Then there is matter of availability of medical-grade glass and sterile vials in sufficient quantities. When we are discussing billion of doses to be delivered around the world in a short span with limited fund allocations, it creates a kind of bottleneck situation.Ease in lockdown and opening markets have increased the spread tenfold, and according to pandemic experts there is the possibility that covid-19 will keep on spreading for next 18 to 24 months until 60 to 70 percent of the population has been infected. With hospitals overcrowded and a sharp rise in the number of cases and deaths, Pakistan’s frail health system is bracing for an unthinkable jolt.Covid-19 has shown its effect on the economy also. Nations now face several predicaments that are tangled with each other which include a medical crisis as well as economic instability and unstable commodity prices. The World Economic Outlook has projected global growth in 2020 to fall to -3 percent. There has been a major downgrade of 6.3 percentage points from January 2020. This makes the current lockdown recession even worse than the Great Depression and far worse than the Global Financial Crisis of 2009. According to the Finanve Ministry’s pre-budget economic report, the current account deficit has been reduced by 71 percent to US $3.3 billion, which is 1.5 percent of the Gross Domestic Product during July-April FY 2020 against US $11.4 billion last year, or 4.8 percent of the GDP. Exports declined by 2.4 percent to $19.6 billion against $20.1 billion last year. Imports declined by 16.9 percent to $36.1 billion from $43.3 billion last year. Consequently, the trade deficit declined by 29.5 percent to $16.4 billion. Foreign investors have pulled $83billion from developing markets since the start of the crisis, the largest capital depletion ever logged according to the Institute of International Finance.With the possibility of the recession lasting more than a year and individuals depending on their limited savings, things will become more tense in times to come. Nations with poor economies face a downfall in government revenues and profits. In addition to keeping track of balance of payments, required now for health-related expenditure, governments have to make a decision between saving lives and saving livelihoods.This pandemic is disturbing the economy in multiple ways. From interrupted supply lines, multiple business closures to halted manufacturing plants, every industry has felt its impact. Major affected categories include small restaurant and marriage halls, with which multiple occupations are also affiliated. Schools, colleges and private academies also come under this category as their being closed, means that professionals affiliated with education are facing severe financial impact with many being laid off from their jobs. Tourism industry which accounts for 8 percent of global services trade is now at a halt. According to the World Tourism and Travel Council’s annual report, the Pakistan travel and tourism industry was estimated to rise more than 5.9 percent, crossing Rs 986 billion in 2018, contributing Rs. 2,489 billion (7.4 percent) to the GDP, creating around four million jobs and attracting capital investment of more than Rs 410 billion. Leisure travel spending in 2018 was around Rs 1,252 billion, alluring around 1.2 million tourists in Pakistan but now due to lockdown implementation we will observe an overall decline, including in the tourism and aviation industry. The World Bank approved a $500 million programme to help Pakistan improve its healthcare and education, back economic prospects for women and strengthen social safety as the country readies itself from the impact of the coronavirus on its economy.Ease in lockdown and opening markets have increased the spread tenfold, and according to pandemic experts there is the possibility that covid-19 will keep on spreading for next 18 to 24 months until 60 to 70 percent of the population has been infected. With hospitals overcrowded and a sharp rise in the number of cases and deaths, Pakistan’s frail health system is bracing for an unthinkable jolt."
Web Desk,Leaping to the fourth industrial revolution,2020-06-10,"The time has comeBy: Hafsa MustansarThe famous words of Sidney Pressey about improving the scope of education sector are worth considering now, amidst the covid-19 pandemic: “There must be an industrial revolution in education in which education science and the ingenuity of educational technology combines to modernize the grossly inefficient and clumsy procedures of conventional education.”He describes through his statement, which he made in 1924, that it is high time to revolutionize the old clumsy conventional education system by transforming the whole paradigm of the educational sector with the help of creative educational technology.The Fourth Industrial Revolution is a unity of physical, digital and biological spheres. The epoch of the Fourth Industrial Revolution improves the living standard at exponential rate. The world’s great powers that are already taken a boost from this revolution are becoming more advanced day by day. It has created great influence even in the economic sector of the First World’s countries. With the help of technologies in the age of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, people are not afraid even about the hazards posed by natural calamities. From online flight booking to online food orders, folks are dependent on the fast-paced technologies, that are swiftly demanding the easy replacement of the human workforce, and these are deeply embedded in the people lives nowadays.To hitch up the Fourth Industrial Revolution in Pakistan, we may encourage the use of fast-paced technologies in every aspect of life, especially in the field of education. The field of education must include and absorb the Fourth Industrial Revolution as an addition in their educational spectrum on an urgent basis to make the difference. This revolution is a unique opportunity for the education sector to rethink about the communicative, collaborative skills-based education at least at the tertiary level. The education system in Pakistani society is already debilitated and in the dire situation. Taking the great leap with the help of technological harnessing in the field of education in the future is indispensable.With the help of government and collaboration of the World Economic Forum, we can get online trainings and equip ourselves with the soft skills as well as technical skills needed. It is rightly said by experts, researchers and analysts the Fourth Industrial Revolution requires the curriculum to teach the kids be changed. If as a developing country we are not able to change our education system swiftly we should consider this at least at the tertiary level of education, where students supposed to get education in order to prepare themselves for the professional fieldsThe question arises how we can rightly use this revolution in our educational system. The society of Pakistan, that lacks basic education with essential skills, still is not up to the required global standard. As the lockdown is being observed throughout the world, students are restricted to their homes due to the fear of covid-19 spreading. Their basic necessity (to get education) is being neglected due to the absence of any long-term policy regarding the smooth running of education system in unprecedented times. National education policies relevant to the Fourth Industrial Revolution must be fabricated to leap into the future. The boost or boom of technology here and now demands a technologically oriented career. Globally, students are paying heed to pursue their future in science and technology, and mathematical subjects, to keep themselves relevant to the growing trends of the world.In the time of rat race, technical as well as soft skills are highly required to raise the soft image of the country. For the attainment of this aspiration, concerned institutes need the help of the government. It must try to impart training and technological skills by opening centres or institutes in every district. The curricula must be revised so that they contain an element of critical thinking, problem-solving, and talent-driven skills for the growth of students. This should be started from the very basic level of education.As the pharmaceutical industries have taken lead due to the right use of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, it should be utilized in other industries too. In Pakistan universities have been established that have wholly structured their teaching system on virtual online classes even be3fore the current pandemic, the Virtual University and the Allama Iqbal Open University. As no one exactly knows when this state of siege will be over, to continue the education system there is a dire need to start virtual online classes, online exams taking, and checking facilities. When every field is working up to the mark because of technological use in certain fields, robotics science is paving the way folr robots to take the place of humans.For the attainment of the Fourth Industrial Revolution in the educational sector, we should thus provide the students the necessary support for the approach of technical skills, creativity and critical thinking, and empower them to find solutions based on their assumptions and analysis. Through this approach they become self-sufficient and it will develop a sense of confidence in them. The World Economic Forum that coined this term, the Fourth Industrial Revolution, provides sufficient support to the passionate people that are ready to leap and want to make their mark in the world. With the help of government and collaboration of the World Economic Forum, we can get online trainings and equip ourselves with the soft skills as well as technical skills needed. It is rightly said by experts, researchers and analysts the Fourth Industrial Revolution requires the curriculum to teach the kids be changed. If as a developing country we are not able to change our education system swiftly we should consider this at least at the tertiary level of education, where students supposed to get education in order to prepare themselves for the professional fields.The writer can be reached at [email protected]"
Amar Hameed,Where there is a will there is a way,2020-06-10,"The Steel Mills should be only the beginningPakistan Steel Mills shut down commercial operations in 2015. Its 9350 employees are being paid Rs 350 million per month in salaries since then. Finally, almost two years after coming into power, the present government has decided to put an end to this financial drain by announcing a golden handshake of Rs 20 Billion. So far this step has been approved by the ECC, as well as the full Cabinet. It remains to be seen if the government’s will is strong enough to see this through. The next step should be to make another attempt at privatising the steel mills. The book value of the Pakistan Steel Mills is around $480 million. Regardless of the current market value of its land, it is unlikely that a mill that has been shut for five years can fetch that price. Even if it can be privatised for half this amount, it will be worth it. Not only will the annual drain of Rs 25 Billion cease, the government will be better off by Rs 37 Billion.If the steel mills can be privatised, why not PIA? Our national carrier has around 14,800 employees which are 10,000 too many. These employees cost the government Rs 30 Billion every year, while the airline loses over Rs 50 Billion per annum. If a golden handshake of Rs 30 Billion can be negotiated with the employees, it would pave the way for the privatisation of this loss-making enterprise. With net assets of around Rs 50 Billion the cost of the golden handshake could be financed by the sale of the airline. It is said that the PIA employee unions are very strong. Does our present government have the will to take them on? The previous government tried to privatise PIA and the unions went on strike. At that time our noble prime minister put politics above country and sided with the striking unions.There are many state-owned enterprises which are costing the taxpayers billions every year. The Utility Stores Corporation is another example. With over 6000 outlets it is by far the largest supermarket chain in the country. Although the USC has only 15,000 employees, because of mismanagement it lost Rs 5 Billion last year.The land that is being used to grow sugarcane could easily be used to grow cotton and wheat, both of which could be exported (without having to give subsidies). In our country 2.4 million acres of land is under sugar cultivation. Over 5.5 million tons of wheat could be grown on the same acreage, which at the current international price of $200 per ton, could fetch us over $1 billion a year. As a matter of fact, cotton could be used to increase our value-added textile products which could increase our exports significantly above $1 billion a yearThe biggest drain on the poor taxpayers of our country is Wapda and its distribution companies. Our line losses of 30 percent cost the exchequer Rs 215 Billion every year. Line losses in most developed countries are around 5 percent. In our South Asia region Sri Lanka is the lowest with 10 percent and Pakistan is the highest. If the distribution companies could be privatised these losses could be brought down to 15 percent, saving the country Rs 100 Billion per annum. However, electricity is too big a subject to be analysed in this short article. Suffice it to say it is probably the biggest financial disaster in the history of our country. There is no reason why this problem cannot be fixed. If the government has the will, it would find a way.Recently the sugar investigation report was published with a lot of fanfare. Attention was drawn to the billions of rupees in subsidy given to wealthy sugar barons. By focusing on subsidies, a much bigger question was brushed under the carpet. Why do we grow sugarcane and why do we produce sugar? The people of our country are being made to pay over Rs 70 per kg for sugar when sugar could easily be imported for Rs 45 per kg. The argument that we are short of foreign exchange and imports have to be paid for in foreign currency is baseless. The land that is being used to grow sugarcane could easily be used to grow cotton and wheat, both of which could be exported (without having to give subsidies). In our country 2.4 million acres of land is under sugar cultivation. Over 5.5 million tons of wheat could be grown on the same acreage, which at the current international price of $200 per ton, could fetch us over $1 billion a year. As a matter of fact, cotton could be used to increase our value-added textile products which could increase our exports significantly above $1 billion a year.If the government has the will, it can find a way to tackle the above issues for the benefit of 200 million Pakistanis."
Amjed Jaaved,India is rueful at likely peace in Afghanistan,2020-06-10,"Underlying considerationsThe USA knows without Pakistan’s whole-hearted assistance, there is no end to its Afghan imbroglio. India tried to fish in Afghan hot waters, offering to mediate with the Taliban. But, the USA rejected Indian overtures.India’s involvement could have worsened the fighting instead of dousing it. Undeterred by the USA’s cold shoulder, India is still trying to carve out a niche in Afghan solution.Afghanistan is called the graveyard of empires. Several rulers tried to overpower it, but in vain. Genghis Khan lost a son during the siege of Bamian. Alexander had to beat a hasty retreat. In the 19th century `Great’ Britain, at the acme of imperial power, invaded Afghanistan. It was humbled. It never again attacked, applying its strategy of `masterly inactivity’.The USSR rushed its troops in aid of the tottering Afghan government. In retaliation, the USA and its allies cobbled up an Afghan resistance, the mujahideen, to fight the Soviet forces. The USSR had its nose bloodied. It retreated. The sole superpower, the USA, attacked Afghanistan to oust the Taliban.India is rueful at being excluded from Afghan peace process many times including the recent meeting (6+2+1 grouping). It wants to use Afghan government as a stooge to become a stakeholder. To achieve its objective, it is striving hard to bridge the Ghani-Abdullah divide, and bring together other major leaders who forged relations for decades. India’s frantic efforts to secretly abet violence in Afghanistan may backfire. But, India is cock-sure that the world would continue to believe its anti-Pakistan propagandaThe US wanted India to send more troops to prevent a Taliban takeover or a civil war. But, India was nonchalant.A bitter lesson of the war is that it is the USA, not the Taliban who are weary of the unending fighting. A Taliban commander quipped, `you have the watches, and we have the time’. American mothers are no longer fond of contributing bodybags to a pointless war.A confidential trove of government documents obtained by The Washington Post (9 December 2019) reveals that senior US officials failed to tell the truth about the Afghan war. They kept making rosy pronouncements they knew to be false and concealed unmistakable evidence the war had become unwinnable. Since 2001, an estimated 157,000 people were killed in the war in Afghanistan.Douglas Lute, a three-star Army general who served as the White House’s Afghan war czar during the Bush and Obama administrations, told interviewers in 2015: “What are we trying to do here? We didn’t have the foggiest notion of what we were undertaking. ”If the American people knew the magnitude of this dysfunction. 2, 400 lives lost,” Lute added, blaming the deaths of US military personnel on bureaucratic breakdowns among Congress, the Pentagon and the State Department. “Who will say this was in vain?” Since 2001, over 775,000 U.S. troops have deployed to Afghanistan. Of those, 2,300 died there and 20,589 were wounded in action.Since 2001, the Defense Department, State Department and the US Agency for International Development spent between $934 billion and $978 billion, according to an inflation-adjusted estimate calculated by Neta Crawford, a political science professor and co-director of the Costs of War Project at Brown University.These figures do not include money spent by other agencies such as the CIA and the Department of Veterans Affairs, which is responsible for medical care for wounded veterans. The documents also contradicted public statements from US presidents, military commanders and diplomats who assured Americans year after year that they were making progress in Afghanistan and the war was worthwhile.India has no border with Afghanistan. Yet it created its own brand of mujahideen belonging to the Northern Alliance. India not only provided multi-faceted aid to the Alliance but even trained its fighters. Indian ambassador Bharath Raj Muthu Kumar, with the consent of then foreign minister Jaswant Singh, secretly coordinated military and medical assistance to the Alliance.The support involved helicopters, ordnance, mortars, small armaments, refurbished Kalashnikovs seized in Kashmir, combat and winter clothes, packaged food, medicines, and funds. These supplies were delivered circuitously with the help of other countries (Aeini and Farkhor air bases in Tajikistan) or through Massoud’s brother in London, Wali Massoud. India opened four consulates at Kandahar, Jalalabad, Herat and Mazar-e-Sharif, besides its embassy at Kabul. India pampered Ahmad Shah Massoud as its protégé for use on the Afghan chessboard as and when circumstances so allowed. India is still using these consulates to stoke secessionist movements in Balochistan and the volatile tribal belt. India established a Free Balochistan office in New Delhi under Naila Baloch. The inauguration was attended by many Indian government and intelligence officers.Russia and Iran are supporting the Taliban with a view to counteracting the common enemy, the Islamic State, which is allegedly seeking a foothold in Afghanistan. India is pressing Iran to agitate question of safety of Hazara shia in a future Taliban government.American soldiers willy-nilly perform duties. Yet they need international support to avoid a collapse. Post-exit situation is complex. There are many points to ponder: (a) Taliban’s foreign guests include ISIS-Daesh and Al-Qaeda warriors from the Middle East and Central Asia. Isn’t it against Pakhtunwali tradition to stab protected `guests’ in the back? Where shall they go? Will the USA revamp its Mid-East policy to deal with them? (b) Besides USA, Pakistan and The Taliban, India (Chahbahar Port), Iran, China and Turkey (Turkmen-Turkic community) have stakes in Afghanistan. (c) the Afghan economy is in shambles. Could the USA spend the $43 billion it would save annually from the exit on Afghanistan development? Could China, India, Iran and Turkey together (besides the USA) start a nouveau Marshall Plan in war-ravaged Afghanistan to avoid a clash of interest? (d) What about the post-exit 250,000-strong Afghan army and the Taliban? (e) No spill-over effect of Taliban-enforced Shari’a on modernist Pakistan? (e) Could India stop isolating Pakistan in SAARC? (f) How would rebellious Pakistani Taliban and recalcitrant elements in Balochistan react to the US exit? (f) Will the Ashraf Ghani government and other puppets reconcile, at heart, to the US exit?Indian media without corroborative evidence has published a `blueprint’ of future activities of Inter-Services Intelligence of Pakistan. Hindustan Times on on June 4 reported `a counter-terror official in Delhi said ISI officials have created the financial and logistic support network to facilitate their operations. As per the `blueprint’, ` Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence, or ISI, is infiltrating the Lashkar and Jaish terrorists into the Islamic State-Khorasan Province that has been in tatters after the arrest of its chief Abdulah Orakzai aka Aslam Faroooqui and his top commanders by Afghan security forces…..The relocated Lashkar groups have organised attacks in Afghan cities and ambushed border security posts of the Afghan National Defence and Security Forces in coordination with the Taliban, its sword arm the Haqqani Network and Al Qaeda….In the last week of May, a source told Hindustan Times, a group of 30 Lashkar cadres had moved into Dangam district of Kunar province.They were led by Bilal alias Zarqawi, an ex-ISI officer who had been in charge of a major terror training centre in Muzaffarabad in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir as well as for the Jalalabad operations’.India is distorting Pakistan’s prime minister’s informal speech before the US Institute of Peace in Washington last July to tarnish Pakistan’s image. He had said, ` Pakistan still has “about 30,000 to 40,000 armed people who have been trained and fought in some part of Afghanistan or Kashmir’ (Hindustan Times, June 5). The Indian media linked the PM’s statement to a UN report. The Report stated `there are some 6,500 Pakistani nationals among foreign terrorists operating in Afghanistan, and the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT)’/ Pakistan’s Foreign Office contended that India’s `external affairs ministry was using the UN report to “slander Pakistan”.India is rueful at being excluded from Afghan peace process many times including the recent meeting (6+2+1 grouping). It wants to use Afghan government as a stooge to become a stakeholder. To achieve its objective, it is striving hard to bridge the Ghani-Abdullah divide, and bring together other major leaders who forged relations for decades. India’s frantic efforts to secretly abet violence in Afghanistan may backfire. But, India is cock-sure that the world would continue to believe its anti-Pakistan tiradeaa."
Web Desk,Ill-timed suggestions for the Budget,2020-06-10,"The IMF pushes bad economics (again)By: Dr.Izza Aftab &Sadaf AkbarIt’s that time again in Pakistan─ the time when it tallies its books, double-checks all its pockets and glances dismally at the plethora of ‘summaries’ received. It is Budget time in Pakistan. Pakistan is expected to announce the fiscal budget of FY 2020-2021 on June 12. While Pakistan has ignored, and will ignore, most requests, the ones coming from the IMF are hard to ignore. The latest ‘suggestion’ is to freeze the public-sector wage bill so that Pakistan can continue on its path of fiscal consolidation. This should be done to achieve the target of limiting the primary fiscal deficit to 0.4 percent of GDP. In the past ten years, according to the State Bank of Pakistan, this metric ballooned to 9 percent of GDP in 2012 and has been almost halved in 2018. Since then, it has shown a slight increase. Now, the demand is that it be reduced by a factor of six in the upcoming year. Ladies and gentleman, brace yourselves, we are in for quite a ride!Before we go up in arms about some hidden agenda of the IMF, it is pertinent to note that this suggestion is not a first from it. Latvia, which borrowed €7.5 Billion from the IMF in 2008, had to cut government expenditure as well. To ensure fiscal consolidation, Latvia unilaterally brought wage cuts; cuts in pensions, teachers’ pay and wages in the health sector quickly followed. Therefore, this is an old trick in the IMF’s bag. It is also a trick that has not yielded any documented temporal improvement and has almost always been quickly reversed by governments forced into it. Collective action like strikes have been a key factor in such a reversal.So what would happen if Pakistan yields to this demand? At a time when the state needs to be entrepreneurial, such shackles will prove counter-intuitive even to broad goals of international lenders like the IMF. Forget the macroeconomic woes Pakistan always finds itself in for a moment and consider the exogenous shock of the covid-19 pandemic.Pakistan’s trajectory of the spread of the virus has still not peaked. The virus is spreading like wildfire with no abatement in sight. The country’s front-line workers, along with scores of civilians, are falling prey to the virus like flies. The recent relaxation of the lockdown and the ensuing spike in cases is evidence enough that our front-line workers are our best bet against the virus. As a nation, we have played no effective role to prevent the spread by curbing our mobility, so we have to fall back on curing it and caring for those who require medical help. Doctors and nurses in public hospitals, sanitation and janitorial staff, medical workers, police and paramedics are our front-line workers. They are on the government’s payroll. Imagine a plausible reality where they are stop being paid. Therefore, not only are they expected to continue risking their lives and jeopardizing that of their loved ones, now the Government is going to ask them to do it for free. How is that fair?How is an economy supposed to recover if its consumption tanks? There are very few policy options to resuscitate investment thereafter. A direct attack on Pakistan’s skilled labour under the guise of fiscal consolidation will not only make economic recovery next to impossible, it will also directly and negatively affect the state and government. And we will very quickly find ourselves in a vicious circle of incompetent government workers unable to achieve fiscal targets which will perennially park us on the front door of international lenders, including the IMFLet us add to the front-line workers the people who make the government machinery run, the bureaucrats and other government employees. In 2018-19, a whopping 96 percent of government employees were employed in the basic scales 1-16. We cannot say that they have missed the mark during this crisis. They are functionaries of the state; they enforce policies they receive from the upper echelons. Let us refrain from faulting them with something that is not their fault. They have been working tirelessly and they do not receive a wage premium; they do receive job security, and that is why they choose to serve their country this way. All of that will go out with the decision to freeze or cut their wages. Is this how the state should reward the people who serve it and its people?The decision to freeze wages will create ripples to the tune of a tsunami, pun intended. Not only will this hamper the much-needed restructuring and rehabilitation of the economy in the medium run, it will erode belief, trust and confidence in the government and state. This will be a direct attack on Pakistan’s democracy and potentially bring the country back to the two-party system. Just recently, the Grand Health Alliance announced that it would strike against a provincial government due to the lack of safety equipment for doctors. If their demands go unmet, they will go on a strike, on the eve of Pakistan’s budget announcement. The stakes are high and very real.Quite apart from this suggestion by the IMF, the government should increase its role and take charge of the situation. The private sector takes its lead from the public sector and the government’s approach to the economy. There is little evidence, globally, of the government ‘crowding out’ private sector and investment. If the public sector contracts now, it will create a dangerous precedent for labour employed in the private sector.How is an economy supposed to recover if its consumption tanks? There are very few policy options to resuscitate investment thereafter. A direct attack on Pakistan’s skilled labour under the guise of fiscal consolidation will not only make economic recovery next to impossible, it will also directly and negatively affect the state and government. And we will very quickly find ourselves in a vicious circle of incompetent government workers unable to achieve fiscal targets which will perennially park us on the front door of international lenders, including the IMF.Is it even worth it for the government to take a decision that is bound to be reversed?Dr.Izza Aftab Chairperson of the Economics Department at Information Technology University, Lahore. She is also the Director of the SDG Tech Lab and the Program Director of Safer Society for Children. She has a PhD in Economics from The New School University (NY, USA) and is a Fulbrighter.She tweets: @izzaaftabMs Sadaf Akbar is a Research Associate at the SDG Tech Lab established in collaboration with Information Technology University, Lahore, UNDP and UNFPA."
Mohsin Saleem Ullah,Rescheduling Chinese debt,2020-06-10,"An option that might need to be exploredIt is fast-becoming commonplace, albeit worrying, for any developing, poor country to constantly struggle to pay off bailouts and seek debt reliefs. The debts are often loans borrowed from international organizations and developed countries like the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and more particularly, China. And sadly, Pakistan is no exemption to this, and in fact, the tale has been nothing to write home about. Pakistan is a major recipient of China’s Belt and Road infrastructure initiative, pledging to bankroll some $60 billion in port, road and railway projects there. This has often resulted in such infrastructure loans, plunging the recipient-countries into debt crises for. And now, Pakistan is going to have deal with a fast increasing mounting balance-of-payments crisis.Over the years, China has been a very close ally of Pakistan. And in recent times, there came about China–Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), a group of infrastructure development projects that have been under construction in Pakistan since 2013. The value of the projects was originally placed at $46 billion at the start, but as of 2019, its worth is pegged at the value of $62 billion. The CPEC, according to the parties involved, is intended and operated to speedily develop Pakistan’s infrastructure and substantially bolster its economic buoyancy through the construction of modern transportation networks, numerous energy projects, and special economic zones.While the economic corridor seems to immensely benefit China, Pakistan is also drinking from the pot of the project. And of course, that looks juicy. It’s indeed a huge step forward, as the country relentlessly strives to transition from a developing to a large economy — therefore creating a lot of economic opportunities for its people in the process. But despite this, there is a rising challenge that seems to put Pakistan on the low sides. The project even makes Pakistan to be much more indebted to China, which has been its financier. And in fact, yet surprisingly, Pakistan’s external debt profile took off on an upward spiral shortly after CPEC was launched. This has since prompted a rising indebtedness that comes at a time when the country is already living beyond its means and is in dire need of critical funds. This is asserted by insistently continuous current account deficits and external debts of the country. And this could be safely likened to a debt trap by China.Over the years, China has been a very close ally of Pakistan. And in recent times, there came about China–Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), a group of infrastructure development projects that have been under construction in Pakistan since 2013. The value of the projects was originally placed at $46 billion at the start, but as of 2019, its worth is pegged at the value of $62 billion.Pakistan, with $312.57 billion Gross Domestic Product (GDP) recorded a current account deficit of a staggering 5.8% of GDP in 2018, according to Tradingeconomics.com. The country’s current account to GDP averaged -2.35% from 1980 until 2018, reaching an all-time high of 4.90% in 2003 and a record low of -8.50% in 2008. Likewise, Pakistan’s external debt jumped to $105, 841 Million in the first quarter of 2019 from $99, 086 Million in the fourth quarter of 2018.The country’s external debt averaged $53,029.34 Million from 2002 until 2017, reaching an all-time high of $88, 891 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 and a record low of $33, 172 million in the third quarter of 2004. All these have led to declining amounts in foreign exchange, capital flows and foreign reserves.The country has to always appeal to countries like China for loans to subsidize its tough economic situation. In the clover, these funds have not been sufficient to ease Pakistan’s current account crisis, so the country had to also call on the IMF for the $6 billion loan it recently lent.The difficulty is that the CPEC venture is a long way from being done, and the expenses of finishing it continues rising.Furthermore, that makes it likely that Pakistan could reschedule its obligation a few times before it’s finished and offer a destiny similar to some countries like Sri Lanka and in Africa — trading obligation with value, which basically will hand CPEC to China.That is the model China utilized in rescheduling Sri Lanka’s obligation, transforming the nation’s Hambantota port authoritatively into China’s own port, for a long time. An achievement bargain marked nearly a year ago gives China Merchants Ports Holdings—an arm of the Chinese government—70% stake in the Indian Ocean’s noticeable station.Like CPEC, the Hambantota port development started with credits from China. Be that as it may, when Sri Lanka couldn’t reimburse the credits, Beijing changed over these advances to value, generally transforming Sri Lanka into a “semi-province,” in an unpretentious way.In conclusion, that is the thing that will in the long run happen to Pakistan when China expects proprietorship and control of CPEC and gathers tolls from vehicles that go through.The writer is a freelance writer who holds an LLM, in business law from UC Berkeley, reports for The Fox News Digital in Pakistan. He can be reached at [email protected] or @MohsinSaleemu."
Zaeem Mumtaz Bhatti,The buck stops here,2020-06-10,"Blame must be laid at the right doorNero was fiddling while Rome burned. The sure recipe for disaster, for a complete failure for a leader, is to sit on its hand and enjoy holidays, whilst the nation is stumbling from one crisis to another. They say when misfortunes come, they come not alone, but in battalions. First coronavirus, then economic slump, and the crash of PIA aircraft, and that too before Eid, and now the locust attack.The otherwise joyful religious event of Eid-ul-Fitr became a somber one. The pressure was mounted on the Chairman of PIA, Air Marshal Arshad Malik to take the responsibility for the crash and step down. But being a warrior, he dug his heels in.Rialways Minister Sheikh Rasheed refused point-blank to resign in the wake of train crashes. When he hitched his wagon to PTI, he would insist on Saad Rafique, then Railways Minister, to bow out. Air Marshal Malik might have followed suit. Prime Minister Imran Khan, too, would not tire of demanding resignations from public office holders before coming into power. He would quote multiple examples from Western democracies. However, post-election, this is not to be. After all, the apologists may argue that the ground realities of politics stand poles apart from lofty and empty campaign slogans and no obligation, let alone a moral one, rests upon a leader.The all-important question that stares us in the face is whether the Air Marshal should resign or not. Speaking at a press conference following the deadly crash, not for a moment did a feeling of remorse or pain or embarrassment cross his face. The Federal Government instituted a four-member inquiry committee, headed by Air Commodore Usman Ghani to investigate the cause of the crash. Therein lies the rub. Coming as the Air Commodore and three other members do from the PAF, where a junior is not supposed to dissent from a senior, can they sit in judgment over a serving Air Marshal?With every crash, the confidence of the general public in traveling by PIA is undermined and its reputation lies in tatters. Knowing full well that their lives are imperilled, it is hard for them to prefer PIA over other airlines. It is safety that matters ultimatelyAs gradually facts started becoming known, the blame was laid at the door of the pilot, who allegedly didn’t pay heed to the warning alarms sounding in the cockpit for the failure of the landing gear to opem. John Cox, an aviation safety consultant ruled out the possibility. The checklist requires the crew to make sure that the landing gear has been locked into place before preparing for landing. The conversation that went on between the Control Tower and the pilot reveals that the latter was nonchalant and he didn’t lose his cool while breaking bad news as to the failure of two engines. On the face of it, he was trying his best to follow the instructions given by the former. Even otherwise, he was a mature enough pilot, who was said to have 17,000 flight hours around the world to his credit.However, every nerve is strained to pass the buck to him with a view to getting away with everything. The spokesman for the Pakistan Airline Pilots Association, Tariq Yahya, opined that such a crash was not unlikely, as most of the PIA aircraft were no longer airworthy. Needless to mention that a team from France based Airbus company, the maker of the ill-fated aircraft, visited Pakistan to launch its own investigation. While getting their statement recorded before it, the members of Pakistani inquiry committee shifted the whole blame on the pilot.Following the air crash in 2014, Dr Nafisa Shah along with three other National Assembly members presented the National Air Transport Safety Board, Bill before the National Assembly with a view to establishing a board independent of the Civil Aviation Authority, to investigate the causes of plane crashes and to determine and ensure compensation. It contemplated accountability of the board and the CAA by Parliament. Sadly, the Standing Committee on the bill, recommended it be rejected by the Assembly, without setting out any reason at all.A crash causing 97 deaths is a huge loss and embarrassment to the nation at home and abroad. In its heyday, PIA was a brand name. It would help set up airlines and train pilots around the world. Its motto was “Great people to fly with”. It was a matter of national pride. But then, things went from bad to worse.From 1965 to 2020, PIA witnessed 10 crashes of its planes. It raises a series of questions: whether fair, transparent, and impartial inquiries were made to get at the truth and the findings were made public? What were the underlying reasons for the crashes? Whether the pilots or the flying crew were incompetent? Or could they not make crucial decisions in the wink of an eye? Were the planes not airworthy? How much time elapsed since they last underwent thorough inspection? Were the relatives of the deceased provided with adequate compensation, or were they fed on false promises? Had the inquiries been made and the crucial facts involved in crashes been revealed, heads might have rolled and proper decisions would have been taken not to repeat the same mistakes to avoid further crashes. Alas, this was not to be.Against this backdrop, is it not delusional to attach many expectations to an inquiry commission, whose report would never see the light of the day? So why do people demand resignation? Naturally, the buck stops with the Chairman, who sits at the top of the national flag carrier and undertakes to supervise the subordinate officers. He exercises the powers of a Chief Executive. He is at the sweet will and mercy of the Federal Government, which appoints him. His fixed tenure under the law is three years, which can be cut short, and he may be relieved of his services earlier by the Federal Government. Wouldn’t he be exercising his influence to avoid getting involved in the eye of the storm? Should he not stand down in the interest of a fair, transparent and impartial inquiry?The amount announced by the government as compensation to the tune of 1 million is derisory and illusory, to say the least.Pakistan is a signatory to a multilateral treaty called the Montreal Convention 1999. Pursuant to it, the airline is bound to pay damages to the bereaved families. Invoking the Fatal accident Act, 1855 & The Carriage By Air (International Convention) Act, 1966, the relatives of the deceased may institute civil suits against the federal government, PIA through its Chairman and the Airbus company to claim compensation.All said and done, under Article 19-A of the Constitution, 1973 read with the Right to Access to Information Act, 2017, it is the fundamental right of every citizen of Pakistan to demand that the findings of the inquiry report be made public. Anyone involved in criminal negligence should not go scot-free. With every crash, the confidence of the general public in traveling by PIA is undermined and its reputation lies in tatters. Knowing full well that their lives are imperilled, it is hard for them to prefer PIA over other airlines. It is safety that matters ultimately.Unless the appointments are made purely on merit and PIA is purged of the corruption that runs through its veins and the political interference is ended, the return to its former glory is not possible. It goes without saying, it is a tall order and is easier said than done."
Dr Farid A Malik,Back door Prime Ministers,2020-06-08,"A history of poor installed leadershipIn 2004 around 1500 hours in my capacity as Chairman Pakistan Science Foundation (PSF), I met Mir Zafarullah Khan Jamali the 15th Prime Minister (PM) of Pakistan. The purpose of the meeting was to convince him to induct technocrats in technical ministries. He was not convinced as he thought they would replace politicians who were duly elected. I did my best to explain that technocrats have replaced bureaucrats worldwide as application of technology has led to complexities that generalists are unable to manage. Watching the news bulletin at 1800 hours the same evening, I was shocked to hear that he had resigned.Jamali Sahib was an astute and upright politician, he had no clue that he would be stepping down in a few hours without debate, discussion or voting. Later on, I came to know that at the time of his appointment he was made to sign his resignation letter. When the President decided to launch military action against Nawab Akbar Bugti, Jamali Sahib refused to go along, hence he was removed to be replaced by another plastic and compliant PM, Shaukat Aziz. Back door PMs are supposed to obey. Mian Muhammad Nawaz Sharif is the only back door PM who has unsuccessfully tried three times to stand up to the custodians of these ‘Chor Darwazay ‘, rest have followed the script.Twice in the recent past, elected front door PMs were forced to follow the script. In the seventies it was Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto (ZAB) the most popular leader of his times who led from the front. Eventually he was trapped, cornered and eliminated. His daughter Benazir led a courageous movement against the dictator Zia Ul Haq and the PPP finally emerged as the single largest party in the 1988 elections. Power was handed over to her under very unfavourable conditions. She was made to accept Ghulam Ishaq Khan (GIK) as the President together with handing over two most important ministries, Foreign Affairs and Finance to the establishment.As a Muslim League child, I am embarrassed at the leadership that has been thrust upon the nation through the back door. Most civilian institutions are in total disarray and need to be rebuilt. Electoral reforms are also the need of the hour. Elections have to be credible to be acceptable to all contestants.In Punjab, Mian Nawaz Sharif was forcibly installed as the counter weight Chief Minister. Being a front door popularly elected PM, she should have resisted the temptation of manipulated transition of power but she too fell into the trap. It was this compromise that gave strength to back door unnatural political entities like PML-N and PML-Q. GIK first tried to oust her through a vote of no-confidence with the help of Nawaz Sharif and his Changa Manga Camp where the MNA’s were lodged with money bags. When they did not succeed, then came the dismissal under the 8th amendment. Through the infamous Islami Jamhoori Ittehad (IJI) the back door entrants were brought to the forefront of power.There is a clear political divide between the front and back door politicians. Those who struggle to reach the corridors of power like Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) in the seventies and eighties and Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) in the nineties and twenties cannot be equated with back door entrants who are installed into position to then consolidate their authority through misuse of state apparatus. The experiments of back door PMs have badly failed in fact they have now turned out to be political monsters to be dealt with. National Accountability Bureau (NAB) is after them but due to complexities of common law their conviction remains an uphill task.Two very important leaders come to mind. Air Marshals Asghar Khan and Nur Khan both entered politics after serving the nation in various capacities. Nur Khan realised early that politics in the land of the pure was not pure. He gracefully withdrew himself. On the other hand, Asghar Khan continued, hoping to come into power through honest struggle and sacrifice. He was first used by the third dictator and then abandoned. His son Omar Asghar Khan and heir apparent then emerged as a future political leader by joining the cabinet of the fourth dictator. Unfortunately, he met with a tragic end leaving the once powerful Tehrik-e-Istiqlal in the wilderness. Finally, Asghar Sahib decided to merge his party with PTI. His son Ali Asghar Khan contested the election on PTI ticket from his hometown of Abbottabad but lost. Only two political entities, the PPP and PTI have so far succeeded in entering the corridors of power through their struggle yet they too were made to compromise.Pakistan needs real political leadership that enjoys popular support. Turkey went through a similar transition. Tayyip Erdogan gradually established himself by serving his people before he amended the constitution ending over half a century of Military domination. Pakistan has credible leadership at the top after decades that is trying to establish civilian authority but a lot of work needs to be done. All brands of Muslim Leagues with its back-door leaders are on their way out. As a Muslim League child, I am embarrassed at the leadership that has been thrust upon the nation through the back door. Most civilian institutions are in total disarray and need to be rebuilt. Electoral reforms are also the need of the hour. Elections have to be credible to be acceptable to all contestants.As PM Imran Khan is walking a fine line, so far, he remains undaunted by the odds pitted against him but his struggle is ongoing. The entrenched Mafia’s continue to resist the much-needed change. Political cleansing has to go on unabated to restore the purity in the land of the pure. After the 1970 debacle, the establishment has been able to thwart the political order either by manipulation of the electoral process or by holding on to power where front door leadership managed to gain public support. There has to be real transition of power for political order to gain strength but for that to happen the political parties have to organize themselves together with grass root structure and support for mass mobilization of people as was done during the recent election campaigns and the one in the seventies led by ZAB.Only real leadership can fight for change, rest will either work for narrow self-interests or sheepishly go home as done by Jamali Sb. Kaptaan has always been an attacking player, he is now a front door PM who has to lead the charge thereby shutting the back doors for all times to come. This may turn out to be his greatest innings as an attack bowler, all-rounder and leader of the nation."
Shah Nawaz Mohal,"Black, black Berlin",2020-06-08,"The sights, sounds and symphony of a MetropolisBerlin loves black. Berlin is black. It has beauty of a beast, vengeance of a teenager, faith of a child, zeal of a fanatic, boredom that never gets satiated, life that keeps on coming back after every tired night, night that keeps on eating away days. Berlin is all this and more.Berlin embraces everything and everyone. All sensations are groomed. All images are caressed. All noise is music. All oblivion finds its way back to memory. All wounds turn into flowery tattoos. All pain gets its voice in piercings. All happiness is transitory. All sadness is drowned in drugs, parties, student jobs, company of friends, literature, graffiti, long walks, train rides, double-decker buses, trams and small acts of innocuous rebellion.Between the savagery that was the First World War and the monstrosity that was Nazisim, Germany had Weimar Republic. The decadent, self-obsessed, always-partying, always awake Berliners back in the 1920s and early 1930s, lived as if there was no tomorrow and yesterday was always a blur, a haze, a fog. It would be nice, if you just Google Weimar Republic, and delve deep into the roots of all that was Berlin. A history-ridden, sleepless, wondrous, ferocious place where the past hugs the present as the future takes a peek at this ever-present sight. All three; past, present and future, have a hearty laugh with tears in their eyes, sorrow in their heart and hope in their heads.From being divided in two halves, East Germany and West Germany, where East was all high to prove its communist credentials and West selling its capitalist utopia to reunified Germany. Berlin has seen a lot. It has seen destitution. It has seen division. It was reduced to rubble. It rose like a phoenix. Only to become a Sisyphus, condemned to live the same reality, same ordeal, same travail, same destiny, over and over again, until the end of eternity.Berlin discards nothing. The sewer and serene exist side by side. The homeless with trolleys filled with plastic and glass bottles they can return, get a refund, buy more alcohol and get wasted. The sorted-out, affluent, rich, moneyed ones who buy their Bombay Sapphires and expensive designer wines from Galleria at Alexanderplatz, drive around in their unpretentious cars i.e. Audi, Volkswagen, Mercedes and BMW’s, least bothered to brandish their wealth, exist amidst a sea of humanity trying to solve itself, resolve its doubts, transcend its limits, go beyond all that is and towards something that could be.Berlin is where even anarchist’s respective red line. You can be whatever you want in here. Your sexual orientation-no what it is, your religion-or lack of it, your color-black, brown, white, your ethnicity-Turk, South Asian, Chinese, your language-English, German, Turkish, Hindi, your culture-and your love or hatred of it, your past-one you cherish or one you want to escape from.Berlin worships the potential of every individual to ruin and/or become who they are destined to become. Berlin is a mirror. A mirror showing every individual their inner demons, their deeper desires, their rhyme, the color they are inside, the shadows they are scared of, the realities they aim to escape, and the lies they live over and over again.Berlin is where even anarchist’s respective red line. You can be whatever you want in here. Your sexual orientation-no what it is, your religion-or lack of it, your color-black, brown, white, your ethnicity-Turk, South Asian, Chinese, your language-English, German, Turkish, Hindi, your culture-and your love or hatred of it, your past-one you cherish or one you want to escape from.Your world views-conservative, secular, libertarian, socialist, anarchist all take a back seat as you roam aimlessly around Brandenburg Gate to see the glory of the past, Alexanderplatz to get a feel of East Germany meeting West Germany, Zoologischer Garten for food or shopping, Charlottenburgh to feel good, Kurfurstandem to see every and any brand from Tesla to Louis Vuitton, Warschauer Straße to behold the decadence of youth, queers, techno-heads, and folks looking for good times.Berlin is a demigoddess, who nourishes you and makes you feel life in all its glory and gore. Like a mother who just can’t scold her favorite son. Like a Dad, who just can’t stop loving his only daughter.Berlin is a microcosm of what is best, worst, rotten and worth celebrating in humankind. With the history it had, the present it lives in and the future that is promising and bleak, its summers are heaven and its winters are gloomy.Berlin has a long memory, but a short memory span. You can live a thousand lives, die a thousand deaths, live again, live more, die again and die some more. And every time, you start all over. Berlin comes with a restart button, that you keep on pushing until the push comes to shove. What do you get? Many perfect nights, many beautiful days, many sad evenings.Berlin forgets its nights the moment it wakes up in the morning. All that happens in the night vanishes the morning after. Whatever your poison is, Berlin has it in abundance.Black, black Berlin. A Phoenix-turned-Sisyphus which roars only to become silent, catch its breath and roar again.And it roars again."
Omer Javed,Covid-19 and the possibility of a debt crisis,2020-06-08,"There are ways of avoiding oneAround $8 trillion have been spent globally to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, to support lives and livelihoods of people affected by the virus and lockdowns, respectively, and to overall keep the economies afloat under an environment of low aggregate demand and supply globally, which has already caused the global economy to shrink by $8.5 trillion since the current crisis began, with the global GDP growth forecast for this year at negative 3.5 percent, according to the UN.This sharp and deep economic downturn, which many economists now believe will take the form of a prolonged-U shape, with longer time needed for the global economy to return to an upward trend– mainly because the time to find a vaccine, get it approved for commercial use, and actually getting the people vaccinated, can take around one-and-a-half year– has already had severe negative effects on people being pushed below the poverty line. Here, the World Bank expects the number of people going below the poverty line– where poverty line is defined as people ‘living on less than $1.90 per person per day’– to be at around 60 million, while the estimation of UN is grimmer at 130 million.All this means that government almost everywhere, and especially in emerging and developing countries, will have to continue with greater welfare programmes– for instance, unemployment rates in many parts of the world have seen a significant rise since the start of the pandemic, enhancing in turn allocations in terms of unemployment benefits– and overall loose monetary and fiscal policies. In addition, shrinking of the aggregate demand and supply globally has meant negative impact of exports, and remittances for instance, along with a sharp outflow of financial capital from emerging and developing world, has already been $100 billion since the beginning of last week of January this year, according to International Institute of Finance, has all meant that the debt repayment capacity of these group of countries has diminished significantly. For instance, Ramin Toloui, formerly assistant secretary for US Treasury, indicated ‘The withdrawal of money [from EM funds] is greater and more sudden than in 2008, the economic shock is huge and the path to recovery is more uncertain than it was after the last crisis’, and hence the emerging economies faced an ‘enormous’ challenge to save themselves from a possible debt crisis.It is hoped developing countries, including Pakistan, will take timely and meaningful measures, to meet this challengeGlobal debt, which had already seen a significant rise since the Global Financial Crisis 2007/08, is expected to rise a lot at the back of welfare policies being pursued during the current crisis. In this regard, UN DESA (United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs) in a recent policy brief highlighted ‘The global community has offered partial debt service suspensions to 76 low-income countries, and the IMF has offered debt service relief to 25 of the poorest countries. These do not cover commercial and multilateral debt or middle-income countries, and will not suffice to avoid defaults. Debt distress will impede countries’ efforts to combat the coronavirus pandemic and derail progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)… Despite near zero global interest rates, borrowing costs for most developing countries have risen; credit spreads on emerging market sovereign bonds more than doubled from the beginning of the year to April, widening to more than 600bps… Median public debt in developing countries grew almost 15 percentage points of GDP from 2012 to 2019 (from 35 per cent to 51 per cent of GDP).’At the same time, developing countries are also stuck in the dilemma of how much debt relief to seek, especially with regard to the debt owed to private creditors, so that their credit-ratings do not slip down, making it difficult for them to approach creditors for future financing. One way, therefore, for safeguarding the debtor countries is highlighted by Berry Eichengreen in his recent article ‘Managing the coming global debt crisis’ as follows, ‘This debt crisis is also a humanitarian crisis and a global public-policy crisis. The appropriate entity to organize the response is therefore the International Monetary Fund [IMF], not the Institute of International Finance, the house organ of the creditors (as recommended by the G20). As a United Nations organization, the IMF could request that Chapter VII of the UN Charter be invoked to shield debtors from disruptive legal action by opportunistic investors. A crisis of this magnitude warrants no less.’Another important step that needs to be taken is with regard to the supply of the IMF’s SDRs (Special Drawing Rights). Hence, given the dilemma facing debtors of emerging and developing countries, there has been a rising call from many corners for the IMF to provide greater support to indebted countries facing a possible crisis by making available greater amounts of SDRs to them. For instance, David Lubin in a recent article ‘IMF’s $1tn lending power is not all it is cracked up to be’ recommends ‘One way out of this might have been an emergency allocation of special drawing rights, a tool last used in 2009. This would credit member countries’ accounts with new, unconditional liquidity that could be exchanged for the five currencies that underpin the SDR: the dollar, the yen, the euro, sterling and the renminbi. That will not be happening, though, since the US is firmly opposed, for reasons bad and good. So in the end the IMF and its shareholders face a huge problem. It either lends more money on easy terms without the “collateral” of conditionality (borrowing government tighten its belt and exercise restraint in public spending), at the expense of undermining its own balance sheet; or it remains, in systemic terms, on the sidelines of this crisis.’At the same time, Nobel Laureate, Joseph Stiglitz, among others, recommend to debtor countries, in a recent article ‘Restructuring Argentina’s private debt is essential’, to also take note of the path recently thought out by policymakers in Argentina to face the challenge of a likely debt crisis, whereby ‘‘Against the backdrop of this global emergency, Argentina is spearheading its public debt-restructuring process in a constructive manner, in good faith, and with the support of all domestic political sectors… Argentina has presented its private creditors a responsible offer that adequately reflects the country’s payment capacity: a three-year grace period with a minor cut in capital and a significant cut in interest… At this exceptional moment, Argentina’s proposal also presents an opportunity for the international financial community to show that it can resolve a sovereign-debt crisis in an orderly, efficient, and sustainable manner. The absence of an international legal framework for sovereign-debt restructuring should not deprive indebted countries of the possibility to protect their people and provide for economic recovery during the greatest global crisis in our memory.’The above are some solutions to save from a possible debt crisis, likely in the wake of the covid-19 crisis, and it is hoped developing countries, including Pakistan, will take timely and meaningful measures, including taking a leaf out of these solutions, to meet this challenge."
Humayun Gauhar,Knee on the World’s Neck,2020-06-07,"A new thesis creating a new synthesis?Change is constant. Once it takes place, it can never be reversed. Philosophers used to wonder how change takes place and why. Unable to find the answer, they assumed a static world, which was absurd. It was not until Hegel appeared on the scene that a reason for change emerged.Hegel said that change is inherent. At the same time, there is a thesis and antithesis. The two interact, synthesise and transcend the situation with a new thesis emerging immediately and simultaneously an antithesis. And the process goes on. It is the process that causes conflict, which is how things change. Hegel called this process the dialectic. Of course Hegel was talking in terms of not the secular but the metaphysical. We can take a liberty and call it the cosmic dialectic.Appeared Karl Marx who was talking more in terms of the secular and the worldly. He too wondered how and why things change and society changes. He picked up Hegel’s dialectic and said that conflict was inherent. There was a thesis and an antithesis which clashed not synthesized and a new situation appeared. And so on. It led to change. The conflict that Marx was talking about was basically class conflict, which means the worker and the mill owner, the peasant and the landlord. Society would then change from the feudal to the industrial; there would be a workers revolution and everything would end up belonging to the State. After this, would arrive utopia.Well, it did not happen like this because Marx did not see the emergence of trade unions and joint stock companies. Nor did he know that Vladimir Ilyich Lenin would hijack his ideas and lead a minority in Russia called the Bolsheviks to overthrow the majority called the Mensheviks. It was a coup which he called a revolution. There was wholesale nationalization, collectivization of land to increase agricultural output and build lumbering new factories to make armaments because the Second World War and Hitler had descended upon the country. This was all the brainchild of Stalin along with the people who were his fellow travellers. In so doing, Stalin destroyed the revolution to save the revolution.Racism and prejudice has been instilled in American children with games like ‘Cowboys and Indians,’ a book called ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin.’ Even today, Clint Eastwood films like Dirty Harry lionize the rampant policeman. They only have themselves to blame. America created many instruments to colonise and subjugate the world (the most obvious of which are the World Bank, the IMF and their institutions), and trapped Third World Countries in chains of debt. The time has come for these chains to be broken. The agenda of the freedom of the blacks is still incomplete. God willing, it will complete soonIt could not last because according to the Marxist process, Russia did not enter into the industrial stage but went straight from feudalism to socialism. Capitalism was overthrown but sadly replaced by State capitalism. Rights of workers and ordinary citizens were trampled as increasingly the Communist Party became a hardened bureaucracy. They tried to spread their revolution to other countries already having created an empire out of Central Asian states and stupidly annexed Afghanistan, which nobody has been able to conquer and subjugate from the Iranians to the British to the Russians. All were vanquished and left diminished. It was like the last straw and the Soviet Union soon collapsedThe latest attempt at Afghan annexation was by the United States of America. After 20 years of death and destruction, America is finally leaving in defeat and disgrace with its tail between its legs and once again, Pakistan will be left to pick up the pieces.The Soviet Union started cracking up after its Afghan defeat. The United States now looks to be cracking up after its Afghan defeat. Cracking up could take many forms─ a rearrangement of the State, a rearrangement of policy, a rearrangement of even ideology, the downfall of capitalism in its most naked form as practiced in America. Time will tell. But one thing is obvious─ the defeat in Afghanistan put paid to the USSR. The defeat in Afghanistan could contribute to America’s break up.Many commentators are unbelievably writing articles with frightening titles. One is American Breakup: secession is much closer than we think and its sub-heading is The States with the most active secession movements are progressive and want to escape from a federal government they think too conservative. It is written by F.H Buckley of George Mason University in The Spectator and his book, ‘The Looming threat of a National Breakup’ is available. He says in the article that, “The United States is ripe for secession. Across the world, established states have divided in two or are staring down secession movements. Great Britain became a wee bit less great with Irish independence, and now the Scots seem to be rethinking the Act of Union (1707). Czechoslovakia is no more and the former Soviet Union is just that: former. Go down the list and there are secession groups in nearly every country. And are we to think that, almost alone in the world, we’re immune from this?” He says that America is, “less united today than we’ve been at any time since the Civil War, divided by politics, religion and culture.”Slavery was perhaps the strongest aspect of American culture, weaker in the North. The slaves may finally have been freed but only in the legal sense. They struggled for their civil rights and got them on paper. Their leader, Martin Luther King Jr was assassinated in his prime. But these are only on paper. In reality, an African is still looked at askance with a high degree of suspicion and is killed at the slightest suspicion, even if he is totally innocent. The African is not American but sub-American. This is racist prejudice and American is not alone in harbouring it and not just against Africans. Most countries have a disgustingly high level of racism. Not to veer too far afield, we Pakistanis looked upon the Bengalis of East Pakistan in much the same way and paid heavily for it. Secession is nothing new. We have all seen it many times. Pakistan seceded from united India to make an independent country. East Pakistan seceded from Pakistan to make it Bangladesh. The break-up of the Soviet Union led to the emergence of some 15 new states. South Sudan just happened and the Muslims of Sudan were separated from the Christians. And the United Kingdom is facing break up with the Scots, the Northern Irish and the Welsh harking for secession. In fact, the United Kingdom itself seceded from the European Union which they call Brexit. And so the process goes on and America is not immune from it. The latest upheaval was triggered by the wanton killing of one black American called George Floyd at the hands of a white policeman. The country erupted in protests, some violent that are still ongoing. The most powerful man in the world, hid cowering in his bunker in fright along with his family. Shades of Hitler in his bunker. George Floyd has become a metaphor that could prove to be the last straw that could lead to the eventual break-up of America into many different independent states which are self sufficient. I gave the example of California in my last article. The process may not be very fast but this last great superpower could follow the pattern of the Soviet Union. George Floyd was killed by the white policeman’s knee pressing onto his neck and was asphyxiated. America calls itself, ‘the Policeman of the World.’ This ‘policeman’ has had its knee on the neck of the world since World War II. They have annihilated Afghanistan; they have decimated Iraq and Syria to mention just three. Does it need saying that they all happened to be Muslim countries? The earliest decimation that happened at White America’s hands was that of the Native Americans whom they called ‘Red Indians.’ Racism and prejudice has been instilled in American children with games like ‘Cowboys and Indians,’ a book called ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin.’ Even today, Clint Eastwood films like Dirty Harry lionize the rampant policeman. They only have themselves to blame. America created many instruments to colonise and subjugate the world (the most obvious of which are the World Bank, the IMF and their institutions), and trapped Third World Countries in chains of debt. The time has come for these chains to be broken. The agenda of the freedom of the blacks is still incomplete. God willing, it will complete soon."
Web Desk,Of our gravy train,2020-06-07,"Breaking the status quoBy: Mohib AsadThe term which is the title of this piece is defined as a position in which a person or group receives excessive and unjustified money or advantages with little or no effort. One does not have to look far to identify suchlike entities in Pakistan. So kindly consider the following;At the time of the partition of the sub-continent, there also was a large transfer of population across the for-the-first-time-created borders. Large numbers left their hearths and homes, by compulsion or choice and resettled. In the areas which became Pakistan vast land and properties were owned by the Sikh and Hindus. Most migrated to Bharat. Properties left vacant were occupied by locals. Later the government brought a system whereby occupiers were conferred ownership though a document called “Permanent Transfer Deed” (PTD)By 1950, Pakistan had a class of urban nouveau riche, and new additions to the existing feudal classes. So Pakistan’s gravy train journey took off. Bharat, on the other hand, abolished large land holdings through the Zamindari Abolition Act in 1950. They destroyed the Princely states and the feudal classes by one master-stroke.The PTD was the passport to the get-rich-overnight syndrome which got under the skin of the Pakistani and now seems to be part of their psyche. Any short cut– ethical or immoral, licit or criminal, decent or vulgar, straight or bent does not matter as long as it makes an easy buck. The banker who launders billions, or my grocer who knowingly sells me a rotten apple come from the same place—share the same elation at having duped the system—and me! How droll!This national obsession for making a quick buck was well and truly systematized by the urban elite and the feudal classes in the 1973 Constitution which is now the engine of the gravy train. This clever document was dreamt up by a group of civil and military elite who had recently presided over the dismemberment of the country. It solidifies and cements the so called “elite capture” of this country by the feudal classes. It created a bicameral legislature, a judiciary not accountable to the people, and a bureaucracy subservient to politicians.A majority of members of the national assembly did not secure the majority of votes in their seat, but are first across the line kinds. They do not represent the popular will. In a multi-party system legislature as on ground, the national assembly is an imbroglio of conflicting ideologies. The judiciary in the name of judicial independence acts as a sealed-from-the-public entity and by now there is a cynical disconnect between the two. The bureaucracy through imposition of various laws and rules is reduced to being a hand-maiden of the politicians.The 1973 Law, amended twenty-two times is more scissor-and-paste than a clearly enunciated document now. The leadership generated by this document has bankrupted the country fifteen times since 1980. The ongoing Covid-19 disaster has the potential to push Pakistan into a failed state.The 1973 Law, amended twenty-two times is more scissor-and-paste than a clearly enunciated document now. The leadership generated by this document has bankrupted the country fifteen times since 1980. The ongoing Covid-19 disaster has the potential to push Pakistan into a failed state.The oligarchy which took control of the country courtesy the 1973 Law acted quickly to create a large gravy bucket for themselves and their cronies by nationalizing banks, industry, education, and the taxation system. Pakistan became a one-man show thence on. With the judiciary in their sway, the bureaucracy destroyed by the take-away of security of tenure, and a legislature which was window dressing at best ( one amendment to the Constitution was passed in three minutes) the stage was firmly set for appropriation of pelf and privilege by the rulers. The ‘elite capture’ was set to gallop. The get-rich-overnight dream was given reality for a small coterie of individuals who took over the top of the corruption pyramid.In all fairness, though, it’s not only the ruling oligarchy which benefited. The break-down of institutional controls over criminal behavior gave rise to various mafias, among them the energy, sugar, cement, food-grain, water supply, and land sectors. So today, the thousands of employees of the ‘state owned enterprises’ are also riding the gravy train.As stated earlier, Pakistan has had to go to the IMF fifteen times since 1980, hat in hand as a bankrupt nation, while many of the oligarchs have become exceedingly wealthy. The show goes on.But, three new factors are changing the equation in the last few years.Firstly, the electronic media, peopled by bright men with roots in the middle class, who have seen their parents struggle to make ends meet while the upper class of the time wallowed in stolen luxury, are angry. They have influence with public opinion and passionately wish to change the status quo. They have set out to slaughter all the hitherto holy cows.Secondly, the populist activism of the higher courts is now non-negotiable. Top judges are vigilant and much empathic to the public weal. Their interventions are swift and irresistible. For the first time in the social history of the country the elite are being put in their place wherever they break the law. Differential application of law between social classes is weakening.Thirdly it is the personal chemistry of Imran Khan.Top cricketing captains have the most analytical and swiftly reactive minds. They have the ability to process data quickly, use their resources optimally, and put the opposition into a losing mindset. Pakistani cricket has had only two really world-class skippers, Abdul Hafeez Kardar was the first, and Imran Khan is the second. So Imran Khan has brought to the job of Prime Minister a top strategist’s brain honed over many matches.He was dealt a weak hand by the country, and has not had much good news since, but he is attempting to put as many holes in the gravy bucket as he can, despite roadblocks after barriers erected by investigators, prosecutors, and the courts. The resistance is wondrous. No closure ever happens in this blighted land –all issues hang on and on.The PM plods on, and the only support he has in the public is a portion of the media. Surrounded by carpetbaggers of all styles, who attempt to frustrate him intermittently, he has still managed to set the ball rolling. His tenacity is not at all a surprise as he is most unlikely to be interested in the gravy himself; his sons belong to the 1% club which owns 50% of the planet’s wealth; as heirs to one of Europe’s richest ‘old money’ fortunes.These three factors, if they continue to work on the same page, have the potential to take the bottom out of the gravy-bucket. Let’s see.Right-thinking people sometimes wonder why many of the gravy-eaters forget three basic homilies. One, that the shroud has no pockets; two, that no fortune, however great, knows a third generation; and three, that the mills of God grind slowly but they grind exceeding small.One final thought. The opposition to Imran Khan may like to recall an old rule of cricket. The skipper can declare an ongoing innings closed at any time. That is his exclusive power; once exercised, cannot be over-ruled even by the umpires. Top cricketing captains are also brilliant tacticians."
Syed Kaswar Gardezi,The bright light,2020-06-07,"The judiciary is about to decide the Qazi Faez Isa caseWhile the year, 2020, has brought about its fair share of setbacks and surprises, it appears that there will be more than one reasons why this year will be marked in the annals of history. The Qazi Faez Isa case, which had slowed down owing to the pandemic, has picked up pace again. Seemingly, the full court appears to be in the mood to decide the matter before hanging their robes for the summer vacations.In the words of Mr Justice Qazi Faez Isa, the government’s ‘tout’ has stepped down to plead on behalf of the federal government. The bench which till now appears to have been divided seems to be unifying around one question; targeting of judges. The very aptly put questions by Mr Justice Munib Akhtar have narrowed down the government’s hopes of putting forward a widespread debate in a bid to confuse and divide the bench. The stance being taken by the government has been nipped in the bud by the intellectual judge from Karachi who till now appeared to be leaning towards the other side of the spectrum. Even the retrospective effect of the anti-money laundering laws and any hopes of the government to catch Justice Isa in them has been shunned.What started on a notion of judicial accountability, it has found higher purpose to it. The decision on these petitions will not only decide the fate of Mr Justice Isa but rather will settle the pedestal upon which the superior judiciary will stand in the future. The case has swiftly taken a turn towards institutional conflict as much as we’d like to think otherwise. It is a veiled round two of the conflicts between the judiciary and the establishment with, the first being the Iftikhar Chaudhry episode. While both institutions will come out of this, eventually, the federal government, it appears, will be thrown under the bus as collateral. Warnings of repercussions in case of mala fide being established have already been issued.The ball is in the actual court now. It is for these robed gentlemen to decide the course of the judicial ship going forward. Will they affirm the deliverance of independent verdicts or else, condone muffling of dissent at its inceptionThe government led by its man of action is under heavy burden to discharge the onus of the queries being shot towards them. The bench has turned hostile towards the federal government owing to its inability to stand its ground and defend its actions.Questions regarding illegal surveillance of judges remain at the forefront. Probably the members of the bench feel the heat closer to home that they now consider it prudent to delve into these questions. The constitution of the Assets Recovery Unit (ARU) and its mandate to inquire into judges of the superior judiciary is also at the forefront. Any decision against the federal government will most likely target the ARU as the frontline soldier in this tirade against the judiciary.The bright light behind the filing of these references has also been inquired upon, probably to affix responsibility. In the aftermath of the Covid-19 lockdown, it appears that the bench has united as an institution. The far reaching consequences of the decision have been comprehended in its truer form. The fate of Mr Justice Isa is the fate of all has been dilated upon by the judges, it so appears.Amidst the deplorable handing of the coronavirus crisis, the federal government needs to brace itself for the ill-advised filing of these references. The Supreme Court is gearing up to come hard on the federal government for its references rooted in mala fides. The bright light is all set to take the government into the corridors of darkness with no olive branch available to be extended. The only way forward to wriggle out of the situation is to withdraw the references at this stage or else, be ready to face the brunt of a united institution. The turn of the decade is going to, hopefully, take a new turn of events in the harrowed past of the judiciary. The doctrine of necessity will probably be abandoned in this case. As far as the political setup is concerned, the doctrine of necessity always remains an option however, an introduction of the said doctrine to go after judges of the superior judiciary will be disastrous for the institution, almost suicidal for the future judges.As I opined in an earlier column, the Justice Isa case is the real test for the judiciary as opposed to any other branch of the state. It is for them to steer the course going forward which will govern the functioning of the judiciary in the future. There is no hiding from the widely believed notion of the Faizabad judgement being the prick in the functioning of other branches of the state. A decision against Mr Justice Isa would give rise to even wilder allegations of judicial manipulation, the sort from which it would be difficult for the judiciary to turn away from. The allegations are already in place. What matters is how the Supreme Court tackles them.Observations tilting in favour of Justice Isa may paint a picture for what is about to be the conclusion. Even the remarks stating that a mere discrepancy in tax returns does not suffice to constitute misconduct is very important and has far reaching implications. It reflects the mindset being harbored at the moment. In spite of all these remarks and observations, the crux of the matter remains focused on the ultimate decision that is being rendered and the way the Supreme Court deals with different aspects of the case, treading upon the fine lines of targeting judges and judicial accountability. A toe across either side would have huge detractors.Hopefully, the case will be concluded before the start of the summer vacations however, it is unlikely that any short order will be announced and it may well be months before we see the actual judgement being delivered. The ball is in the actual court now. It is for these robed gentlemen to decide the course of the judicial ship going forward. Will they affirm the deliverance of independent verdicts or else, condone muffling of dissent at its inception?"
Arif Nizami,Cat and mouse game,2020-06-07,"A mockery of fair play?The cat and mouse game played out by the NAB (National Accountability Bureau) at the house of leader of the opposition in the National Assembly Shahbaz Sharif in Lahore on Tuesday was indeed reprehensible. Its sleuths, unsuccessful in arresting the former chief minister of Punjab, made a further mockery of the already tarnished accountability process.Sharif is no absconder; he had returned voluntarily to Pakistan two months back from London. Since then he has already appeared once at NAB headquarters in Lahore to answer questions about his assets within and outside Pakistan.It seems the hyperactive special assistant to the prime minister (SAPM) Shehzad Akbar is tasked with the sole purpose of hounding the opposition. Since his return, Sharif has become the flavour of the month for the PTI government’s accountability drive.This relentless pursuit is termed by the opposition as a witch-hunt and a media trial. Akbar has held two pressers in the past few weeks levelling serious charges of corruption against the leader of the opposition.According to the accountability czar, Shahbaz and his progenies are guilty of amassing a humungous sum of over Rs 550 billion through illicit means. Sharif however claims he has all the documentary proofs to refute alleged corrupt practices of the family.The former chief minister is a cancer survivor. Hence, he asserts that he is likely to be exposed to the coronavirus by appearing at NAB headquarters if he is not extra careful. Since his return, Sharif has by and large confined himself to his house.The nexus between the government and the accountability watchdog is an open secret. Whatever fig leaf of plausibility was there has been destroyed by a combination of factorsHe has been criticised in the media for not attending the special NA session held recently to discuss Covid-19 that was summoned on his initiative. Even some of PML-N (Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz) stalwarts are unhappy about their leader’s consistent hibernation and aloofness.Of course, Sharif should answer for all corruption charges leveled against him. But at the same time, he is entitled to a fair trial. But the manner in which NAB operates hardly comes under the definition of a ‘fair trial’.In this case when the former chief minister had sent a written response to the accountability watchdog’s latest queries and was also willing to face his interrogators on Skype, why the urge to arrest him, come what may?Shahbaz was previously arrested in the Ashiyana Housing scheme case in October 2018 and after being incarcerated for 133 days was released on bail in February 2019 by the Lahore high court. The court, while rejecting charges against Sharif in its detailed judgement, admonished NAB for leveling nebulous allegations against him.Not discouraged by this strong denouement, fresh cases were instituted against Sharif. It seems that SAPM Shahzad Akbar’s job description is to harass whomsoever the state desires.Mr Akbar should face a little bit of accountability of his own. How much looted money has the ARU (Assets Recovery Unit) under him recovered since it was established in September 2018?The prime minister, on numerous occasions, has unequivocally declared that he wants to cleanse the body politic of corruption as this is the corner stone of PTI’s manifesto. But unfortunately, the whole process is largely perceived to be opposition specific.That is why it has little credibility. Nor will it have any under the present dispensation. Establishing an across the board and transparent mechanism has almost become a cliché that all politicians use whether in the government or in the opposition.Nawaz Sharif, when he was leader of the opposition in the National Assembly, shunned moves by then Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani to change the one-sided accountability law. Once being elected prime minister for a third time, him along with his party men, did not even move a finger to introduce a new consensual accountability law.Of course, Sharif’s logic was simple: keep the law on the statute books lest there is need to use it against the opposition. After all, the notorious ‘Ethesab Bureau’ (accountability bureau), established during his second tenure as prime minister and headed by his crony senator Saifur Rehman, relentlessly pursued cases against opposition politicians, especially the PPP leadership.One of the most famous of these cases was that of SGC and Cotecna in which Benazir as prime minister and her spouse were accused of receiving kickbacks from the Swiss custom assessment company.When the present government spokespersons claim that they have nothing to with NAB and thatiIt is an independent body whose present head justice (retired) Javed Iqbal was appointed by then Prime Minister Sharif and president Zardari after mutual consultation, technically they are right.Nonetheless, tall claims that NAB is an independent entity has little credibility. The nexus between the government and the accountability watchdog is an open secret. Whatever fig leaf of plausibility was there has been destroyed by a combination of factors.Shahzad Akbar makes no bones about his almost quixotic pursuit of the opposition in his frequent utterances. His narrative is buttressed by various minsters and spokespersons.Unfortunately, the level of debate is low and venomous with copious use of incendiary language. The last straw is Railways minister Sheikh Rashid’s narrative bordering on the absurd.He has gained notoriety for his acerbic comments against the opposition. His prophecy during Ramzan that after Eid, “Tarzan will be in full swing” proved to be ominous.The modus operandi of the government in its single-minded obsession with so-called accountability is shoddy as well. A case in point is the hearing by a full court bench of the apex court reference against Supreme Court judge Qazi Faiz Isa for allegedly having assets beyond means, instituted by President Alvi in the Supreme Judicial Council (SJC).During a recent hearing, one of the members of the bench, justice Muneeb Akhtar pointedly asked the government’s counsel Farogh Naseem to identify the ‘bright light’ that came up with the idea of filing a (flawed) reference against a superior court judge. He further remarked that that the said person made a serious error of judgment.The gamut of accountability, apart from bad faith, smacks of incompetence on part of the government. The urge to victimize is so strong that professionalism (that is in any case lacking) is thrown to the winds.Largely owing to this attitude some observers compare NAB to a dry-cleaning machine. Most high-profile politicians ultimately are granted bail from the high courts. Usually it is the end of their ordeal.But Shahbaz Sharif who has never hidden his pro-establishment moorings is perhaps considered as a dangerman. Hence cases against him have to be taken to their logical conclusion.If he is unable to give convincing answers to various allegations against him- no matter how frivolous they may look- his artfully created brand as a clean politician (if there is such a thing) will be inexorably tarnished."
Rabia Ahmed,The long road to change,2020-06-07,"Can the USA surmount the challenge of race?Freedom, a positive change in attitude, and better laws come about neither easily nor by force, and certainly not by keeping people in ignorance of the facts. They sort of slip into place after years… sometimes generations of struggle and often an uncomfortable sort of partnership between people and their government, but a partnership nevertheless, both working towards a clearly identified goal. Each side gives way gradually, often unwillingly, with concessions and conditions until the desired results are achieved. If either party digs in its heels and does not yield the result is a stagnant, unprogressive society mired in unacceptable ideas and practices.Here’s an example. Africans first arrived in North America in 1619 as slaves, seized from a Portuguese slave ship by the British and brought to what was then a British colony. Within a period of 200 years, almost 500,000 Africans were brought as slaves to America where they laboured on plantations in the south. They were an affordable workforce; it was largely due to their labour that the colonists came to enjoy great economic and military advantages.Several states of America became independent of the British in 1776 and the United States of America came into being.Slavery at the time was protected by the US Constitution, but by the early 19th century the slave states had a problem: they felt that their free slaves were organising themselves to encourage escapes and revolting against their white owners. This was when the Americans started a forced migration of the erstwhile slaves to Liberia which became an American colony. That is a separate story.For those who remained in America, they became safe from slavery to a limited extent when Abraham Lincoln came into power. Lincoln believed that the federal government could not legally forbid slavery, but as the Commander of the Armed Forces he could take action against the states rebelling against the limitation, an observation that can only come from a leader who understands the constitution and the law. So he took action against those states, and that was the American Civil War. After the Civil War, the 13th Amendment was promulgated which abolished slavery.The 13th Amendment was followed by the Civil Rights Act in 1866 which gave those black Americans born in the country greater civil rights. The 13th Amendment was followed by the 14th a year later which granted citizenship to black Africans in America. The 15th Amendment in 1870 allowed African-Americans (men only) voting rights, after which African-American men also started looking for office work and gaining admission into schools. The fight for women’s suffrage and other freedoms is yet another separate story.There is a difference between protests and riots. While the latter is understandable, it is often a segment of society taking advantage of the former. It is best therefore not to put oneself in a position where one can be blamed instead of attracting support. A riot does not constitute a rational standing up for rights, it is a desperate reaction accompanied by looting, destroying, and as such it gives a convenient reason for those looking to stop the process, to use violence and force to suppress the voice of dissent. This method of dealing with unrest only leads to a temporary, unsettling kind of peace which today is PakistanLater on that year, extremist groups such as the Ku Klux Klan also became more powerful; their terrorist activities prevented blacks from fully utilizing their newfound status as citizens. Racist attitudes only become stronger in the 20th century with greater institutionalized racism and legal discrimination against black citizens.Gradually however the Civil Rights Movement became stronger. Its protest mostly took the form of sit-ins, boycotts, civil disobedience, and other means of peaceful protest, and its cause was upheld by various Supreme Court judgements which was important. It all culminated…to cut a long story very short, in a black man becoming President of the country for two consecutive terms between 2009 and 2017.It took an interaction, and an effort… not always concerted but allowed, between the superior court, the executive, the legislature and the people of the country to come to that conclusion.Racism has not gone away in the USA. It is alive and well there and all over the world, and very much so in our country. If racism does not seem to be dislodge-able in the USA remember that the battle has at least begun. One day, when the present divisive and self-serving setback to the process currently lodged in the presidential office leaves, the issue may work itself towards a resolution, although it is not likely to go away until those who are the butt of racism are no longer downtrodden and weak. The best that can be done is to protect the rights of the victims of racism by means of the law, and by means of long, patient indoctrination of society… but mostly by means of laws that are firmly enforced.Has that taken place in Pakistan? What happened to the constitution that said all citizens of the country were equal? Where does the Ahmadiyya sect stand now, the Hazaras, the Shiites? Where is the eastern wing of the country? What happened? Where were the protests, then and now? Where are the textbooks encouraging debate on what happened in 1971, where is the encouragement of debate in itself, as opposed to battle, protest as opposed to rioting? Have the superior courts of the country shown themselves to be unbiased and indeed superior? Has the battle here even begun?There is a difference between protests and riots. While the latter is understandable, it is often a segment of society taking advantage of the former. It is best therefore not to put oneself in a position where one can be blamed instead of attracting support. A riot does not constitute a rational standing up for rights, it is a desperate reaction accompanied by looting, destroying, and as such it gives a convenient reason for those looking to stop the process, to use violence and force to suppress the voice of dissent. This method of dealing with unrest only leads to a temporary, unsettling kind of peace which today is Pakistan."
Raoof Hasan,Judiciary and justice,2020-06-07,"Protecting corruption to hide its own“Where justice is denied, where poverty is enforced, where ignorance prevails, and where any one class is made to feel that society is an organised conspiracy to oppress, rob and degrade them, neither persons nor property will be safe.” – Frederick DouglasIn the labyrinth of moves and countermoves by various stakeholders, there are a couple of realities which have emerged with absolute clarity: that we are living in a system which is not just abominably non-transparent and inefficient, but rotten and corrupt to the core. The other fact is just as daunting: that it may no longer be possible to reform the existing fabrication, and a new system which may be more geared to the demands of contemporary times and the needs of the impoverished, disenfranchised and marginalised communities may have to be crafted without any further loss of time.It is a sad reality, but we can no longer deny that the existent system has failed to deliver to the deserving people of this country who should have been its principal beneficiaries. Instead, they continue to languish under its indescribable cruelty and the increasing burden of depletion of opportunities for bare survival. A clear and horrific prospect of extinction at the hands of hunger and disease is only growing with time.Yet, the beneficiary elite of the system continue to enjoy its lucrative largesse which they are constantly manipulating to fall into their lap. Notwithstanding the bitter political divisions, when it comes to scavenging the illicit dividends of the system, they all converge together to reap a bounteous harvest.It is not just the political elite that benefits from the system. There are countless mafias in the country which monopolise all echelons and avenues of financial gratification. They live off the system to their exclusive advantage and they use their vantage positions to ensure that none of it ever changes.In this context, the judiciary has emerged as the mainstream beneficiary institution, exploiting the caveats in the system to its lopsided advantage. In doing so, it has violated its own charter by giving judgments which cannot stand the test of even the basic rudiments of jurisprudence.The history of the institution’s complicity with dictators is rather old. Not only has it legitimised military take-overs on countless occasions, carte blanche powers have also been granted to the perpetrators to amend the constitution as may suit their fancies. Some individuals stand out as representatives of the deep-rooted corruption prevalent in the institution.Take the case of Mr Justice Qayyum from the olden times. He was caught on phone taking dictation from the sitting ruler to adjudicate in a certain manner, or the more recent case of Judge Malik who was caught on camera in the company of close relations of the principal accused while discussing matters pertaining to his pending adjudication. Judgments like stopping the JIT from probing the Model Town massacre or closing the Hudabiya Paper Mills case with remarks that it cannot be reopened are vile travesties of justice.Lest we forget, it is the same institution where judges ask the government to give guarantee of the life of a criminal for a certain period of time, and where another judge allows a convict to travel abroad for treatment on the strength of a simple paper signed by his brother, who is also an alleged criminal. What banana land are we living in?The rot works both ways. The corrupt people can infect an institution which, in the instant case, they have. But, when an institution becomes rotten, no honest and decent person can survive in it. This is the case with a bulk of institutions in the country, most notably the judiciary which is amply demonstrated by the contentious adjudications which its various benches have been dispensing of late.The movement for an independent judiciary was the biggest fraud perpetrated on this hapless country. We are reaping its dividends which were bequeathed upon us in the shape of Mr Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry– the one who was not only incorrigibly corrupt himself, but recruited a crop of a similar kind to rule the roost. They are all over the place now, nibbling away unashamedly at the remnants of this country and its institutions.The malaise is deeply dug in. The nexus between corruption of politicians and judges was never more visible than now. Since the advent of the Mr Justice Qazi Faez Isa case, the feeble remnants of ambiguity have also disappeared. It is no longer a case of this or that judge. The entire judiciary appears to be protecting corruption to hide its own.More recently, the judiciary has also taken to encroaching upon the executive domain by taking suo motu notices which, by no stretch of law, fall within its realm. So, it is not just corrupt, it is also taking steps to strangulate the system for insulating itself from any corrective action which may be contemplated at some stage. The prospect grows more gruesome as, in the absence of effective parliamentary oversight, the judiciary is virtually a government within the government and can continue to indulge its whims without a care. As a pillar of the state, it has to operate within the constitutional bounds, must be accountable and all its appointments must first be scrutinised in Parliament to ensure that only the best get elevated to the judicial echelons.Martin Luther King, Jr once said that “Justice denied anywhere diminishes justice everywhere”. Nothing could be truer about, and more relevant to, the state that prevails in Pakistan: the beneficiary elite who stand out by their remorseless corruption get ‘more’ justice than even ordained in the statute book, while the poor and the disempowered languish in jails for crimes they never committed. That is why there is no faith in this justice system and people prefer to invest in buying their judgments rather than waiting for the system to deliver, which it never does.In Pakistan, judiciary and justice are two separate things with neither flowing from the other. Here, neither the judiciary is geared to delivering justice, nor anyone expects justice to flow from it. The two have virtually become the antithesis of each other. This can only wreak destruction upon all pillars of the state, and eventually the state itself. This phenomenon must be scuttled.Prime Minister Imran Khan fought a battle for more than 20 years principally for ensuring provision of justice to the people of the country. He even named his party after this motto. Unfortunately, that is not the direction it seems headed in at this juncture. Consequently, his commitment to ensure justice for all citizens would remain a pipedream if he does not first address the rotten judicial system which is creating further division and disaffection in the country. The judicial tentacles have to be clipped before they have poisoned the entire national paradigm. Given their current inclinations, they look determined to eliminate the prospect of justice altogether from the national polity.Postscript: In spite of my rights as a citizen of the state which are guaranteed in the Constitution of Pakistan, if I can still be held accountable for contempt of court, why can’t the judiciary be held for contempt of its own charter as contained in the same Constitution: provision of justice to all people, without any discrimination with regard to their faith, status, colour or creed?"
Web Desk,America—a deeply divided polity,2020-06-05,"Partisan politics gains the upper handBy: Salman ChaudhryThe gruesome video of a white cop, Derek Chavin, kneeling on the neck of an African-American, George Floyd, as he pleaded for breath, has caused widespread anger and protests in the USA and elsewhere.In the USA, there was across-the-board condemnation. The reactions to the aftermath, however, were deeply divided and primarily driven by political affiliations divisible into two clearly distinct set of opinions.Folks, who identify as liberals and are mostly Democrats, saw the protests as being largely peaceful and downplayed the rampant violence, loot and plunder that ensued, discounting them as a few unfortunate incidents and an aberration and in an otherwise nobler struggle. When pressed, they blamed white supremacists who in their opinion crossed state lines to take advantage of the situation.Democratic governors and mayors were initially hesitant to take stern action as people expressed their outrage in violent ways, destroying public and private property. With election season right around the corner, they were understandably reluctant to use force against the violent protestors, whom they mostly view as their liberal voting base. So, at first, and rather comically, these elected public executives blamed the unrest on the outside miscreants, imposed curfews at nonsensical hours beginning around 11 pm at night and restrained law enforcement from taking strict and swift action. It was only after the violence spiraled out of control that the gravity finally dawned upon them and action was taken to reinforce law enforcement, deploy the National Guard and impose curfews at more protest-prone hours.An the other end was an opposite set of opinions from people categorizing themselves as conservatives, mainly Republicans who saw the unrest completely differently, skeptical at the ulterior political motives in the ongoing mayhem. In their view, Officer Chavin, was already arrested and charged with third degree murder and second degree manslaughter and in record time. The district attoorney had also indicated the possibility of bringing more charges against one or more officers involved in Floyd’s arrest, which has since happened.To them, the outcry is just a cover for unabashed violence coupled with the unbridled pillage. They’re of course, willing to set aside President Trump’s divisive comments and tweets and write them off as occasional outbursts of no significance.So, wherein lies the truth? As always, somewhere in the middle. In today’s USA, there is no limit to the opportunity and ambition of people of any race or color. Complaints of pervasive, systemic and enduring racism and discrimination are grossly exaggerated. The nation in the recent past, twice elected an African-American president though African-Americans comprise merely 12.1 percent of the population. The current CEOs of Google and Microsoft, two of the largest and most ubiquitous companies of the world, were born, raised and educated in India and emigrated to the USA in their 20s.However, it wasn’t always like this. Slavery is a disgusting blot on US history. After slavery ended in 1863, African-Americans had to suffer Jim Crow laws enacted by white Democrat-dominated state legislatures that enforced racial segregation in all aspects of life. The civil rights movement brought to the fore the hideous disparity in laws, and it culminated with the passage of the Civil Rights Act in 1964 with a Voting Rights Act in 1965, and the Fair Housing Act of 1968.The acts were to be the harbingers of true emancipation, but the more things change, the more they remain the same. Years of slavery and subsequent segregation had placed African-Americans at a great disadvantage in terms of accumulated wealth and educational attainment.To make matters worse, the Reagan administration passed the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986, a punitive law that included mandatory sentencing and carried long sentences on possession of relatively small quantities of drugs.In its bid to outdo the Republican Party and appear even tougher on crime the Clinton Administration passed a Federal Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act in 1994. The laws enabled tough policing measures along with harsher, longer sentences that had a disproportionately adverse effect on the African-American communities.With this historical perspective, can we make some wiggle room and perhaps come up with reasoning to justify the burning, looting and thuggery and set it aside as collateral damage in service of a righteous cause?Law and order is fundamental condition for a peaceful civil society. When it breaks down and the law enforcement officers have to fend for themselves, then we go down a slippery slope where every man and woman would have to fend for themselves.So, to claim that this misdirected, misguided, relatively young mob, with no clear understanding of the deep racial fissures and wounds of this society, were engaging in a peaceful protest and to castigate the law enforcement agencies and elected executives for their actions to restore order is utter dishonesty and no political correctness can compensate for this denial of reality.Dave Patrick Underwood, an African-American officer in the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Protective Service, was gunned down in Oakland, California and another officer shot with him, but survived. David Dorn, another African-American, a 77-year-old retired St. Louis police captain who served 38 years on the force was shot dead by looters when he tried to get them to stop looting a pawn shop. Will they also be remembered alongside Floyd or will their cries go unheard in this chaos? Will they be forgotten because their deaths don’t serve the self-righteous politically motivated preferred racial narrative that’s popular in America these days?Most Americans likely won’t hear their names and there will be no national outcry. Presidential candidate Joe Biden won’t attend their funeral as it won’t make any news. Mainstream electronic media and liberal newspapers will not carry their tragic stories. Unfortunately, these black lives won’t matter. Their tragic deaths just don’t fit into the narrative that the Democratic Party has been advancing in recent years.This is not to exonerate the Republican Party. Issues are created by both parties and are then fed to their respective base to garner votes. Like the Democrats, Republicans have been pandering into the matters that evoke emotional outcry from their supporters. Before President Trump was elected, immigration was hardly a subject of consequence for Americans. Survey after survey revealed positive American sentiment regarding immigration. But, as he hyped and propagated it and rallied his base around it, immigration became a sensitive and polarized topic.Real change demands perseverance, never a quick fix, and the USA needs to find ways to end or reduce these political divisions that are tearing apart its social fabric. Criminal justice reform is way past due and must be pushed as a collective effort by humbly reaching across the aisle in contrast to the partisan-driven hate, politically motivated racial tensions and the self-righteousness demonstrated by both parties.I’ll leave the readers with a celebrated quote of the great Martin Luther King Jr, “Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that.”The writer works for a nonprofit in Washington, DC. He can be reached at [email protected]"
Ali Sukhanvar,White men’s blackening country,2020-06-05,"The mistakes of the government is at the root of the unrestBarack Obama would never have been elected President of the USA if the Americans, as a nation, were narrow-minded and prejudiced with reference to racial discrimination; but at individual or personal level this discrimination does exist; it is a reality. Some of the Whites dislike rather hate the Blacks, and vice versa. A report on racism in America says, “Racism in the United States has existed since the colonial era, when white Americans were given legally or socially sanctioned privileges and rights while these same rights were denied to other races and minorities. European American — particularly affluent white Anglo-Saxon Protestants— enjoyed exclusive privileges in matters of education, immigration, voting rights, citizenship, land acquisition, and criminal procedure throughout American history.” In other words, it could be said that racial hatred and dislike is a part of US society but education, scientific advancement, technical achievement and an overall superiority of the American people in the field of the economy have simply buried these negative passions somewhere in the depth, but not so deep. In spite of the fact that these riots have a lot of hidden positivity , at the same time they have simply peeled off the widely honoured mask of decency, politeness and civility from the face of US society. Certainly the countries which have been ranking the USA as their godfather with a never-declining ultimate authority, will have to review their point of view now.The recent reaction of the American people after the murder of a black man in police custody has proved another thing also; in a state of aggression and anger, all the nations behave in the same way. The same burning of police vehicles, looting of shops, raising of slogans, attempt at trespassing the official residence of President Donald Trump and an overall lawlessness could be observed there, which we have observed in Pakistan, India and in so many other countries so many times. Is all this agitation simply a protest against the murder of a Black American or is it a reaction against police brutality? If George Floyd were not a black man and if the policeman were not a white-man, would the people have reacted in the same way? These questions are also very important. And above all is the question; if Donald Trump was not the President and 2020 were not an election year, would things have gone the same way?The USA has been admonishing rather reprimanding almost all Muslim countries for their alleged extremism; sometimes punishing them in shape of putting sanctions and sometimes in form of imposing bans of different types on them, but it could not keep a vigilant eye on the extremism nurturing inside its own boundariesSurely the story behind seems somewhat different. The Trump Administration is openly blaming far-left extremists are airing and fueling the protests against the murder of George Floyd. In an interview with a media group, Attorney General William Barr said, “Unfortunately, with the rioting that is occurring in many of our cities around the country, the voices of peaceful protest are being hijacked by violent, radical elements.” According to the VOA, there could be four different extremist groups which are trying to add to the intensity of protest. These groups include the White Supremacists, Boogaloo Boys, Antifa and the Anarchists.The White Supremacists are the individuals and the groups that believe in the supremacy of the white race. They oppose immigration and advocate the expulsion of the non-whites from the country. Many of the members belonging to this group have carried out deadly shootings in recent years; say police reports. They are the people who wish to accelerate a race war just to create an air of fear and fright for the African-Americans. According to Christopher Wray, an FBI Director, most of the FBI’s domestic terrorism investigations involve members of this white supremacist group. ‘Boogaloo Boys’ is an anti-government militia movement. They are in fact an online community of pro-gun activists. Though they promote themselves as libertarians fighting tyranny, analysts are of the view that the Boogaloo Boys are just another ‘edition’ of White Supremacists. Then comes the Antifa; the anti-fascist movement. “The members of Antifa are far-left activists opposed to neo-Nazis and other extremist groups; it is an extreme anarchist-communist movement’, says the Voice of America in a report. At the very bottom of the list come the Anarchists. They are not a very well organized group but they are there with the only consideration; how to sow chaos. It is also said that the history of the Anarchists dates back to 1901 when an anarchist assassinated William McKinley, the 25th President of the USA. In short when the Trump Administration talks of the far-left extremists, it means the fingers are pointing towards all these four groups.By putting blame on the ‘far-left’ extremists, the Trump Administration has, however, admitted that even the USA is not free of the extremists and their extremism. Astonishingly for more than two decades, the USA has been admonishing rather reprimanding almost all Muslim countries for their alleged extremism; sometimes punishing them in shape of putting sanctions and sometimes in form of imposing bans of different types on them, but it could not keep a vigilant eye on the extremism nurturing inside its own boundaries. This criminal negligence of the US authorities is the root cause of the present series of pathetic events and incidents. They all have tried jointly to deprive the USA of its hard-earned title of the ‘World Super Power’."
Qudssia Akhlaque,Monster of embedded racism resurfaces in America,2020-06-05,"It’s Black and White now: dark history repeats with hope of course correction“A riot is the language of the unheard,” Dr. Martin Luther King Jr said during the US civil rights movement in 1968 and it sums up what is happening in the USA now in 2020. Not much has changed. The Black community in the USA is hurting, terrified and not being heard.“Enough is enough… We are sick and tired of being sick and tired and of dying,” are the full-throated cries of the outraged African-American leaders and civil rights activists from the East to the West coast.All their pent-up anger and frustration erupted in protests following the cold-blooded murder of a young African American man, George Floyd, at the hands of the Minneapolis police last week. Floyd was murdered in broad daylight by a white police officer who mercilessly kneeled on his neck for almost nine minutes until he could breathe no more, and two other cops aided the murder while a third stood by. Floyd’s desperate shouts of “I can’t breathe,” were unheeded. A young bystander made a video of this horrendous act and posted it on the social media, sending shockwaves across the USA and around the globe.Despite the continuing threat of covid-19, thousands of anguish-stricken young protesters across the country threw all caution to the winds and took to the streets in all major cities to condemn this horrific incidence. Notably, protesters included people of all colors (including white Americans) who marched on in solidarity with the African-Americans to emphatically convey their condemnation of the incident. They are demanding justice for African-Americans. They want the status quo broken.“To be Silent is to be Complicit,” screamed the placards they held.Even in his death George Floyd continues to live as the powerful slogan of ‘Black Lives Matter’ catches on across the USA. His legacy will be honored while his murderer will be condemned to the dustbin of history as will be the other three officers present on the sceneFor decades young African-Americans in the USA have suffered systemic racism by the police, that has terrorized, killed and dehumanized them as have the divisive White Supremacist policies. Racism is a deep festering wound that has caused untold agony and humiliation to generations of Blacks who face extreme racial disparities. Irrespective of their social status, the colour of their skin unfortunately makes them an easy target of hate crime, a suspect and even worse: guilty until proven innocent. What makes it worse is a divisive, self-absorbed President who utterly lacks empathy. A President who instead of healing these open wounds digs deeper into them with his rash statements. When riots broke out in Minneapolis and other major cities last week his controversial tweet with roots in America’s dark racial history further inflamed emotions. “When the looting starts, the shooting starts,” he tweeted! And he went on to refer to protesters as “dangerous thugs”, “criminals” and “professional anarchists”. As if in a reality show he posed with a Bible (perhaps to appease the USA’s Bible Belt) outside a church. A photo-Op with his all-White aides while protesters were being roughed up by the military police close to the White House. Not a word of reassurance or consolation to calm down the pained protesters.Many emotional and chilling scenes were witnessed during the week, just as powerful slogans were seen on placards held by highly charged protesters. ‘Black lives Matter’, ‘White Silence is White Violence’, ‘No justice, no peace’, ‘We are not trying to start a war, but end a war.’ Ironically a Black CNN correspondent covering the protest in Minneapolis live was arrested amid all this for no apparent reason, and then subsequently released.According to a Harvard University study, African-Americans are five times more likely to be killed by police than Whites. Also, it concludes that one in every five African-Americans is suffering from adverse effects on mental health with the classic effect of fight and flight response because of their highly stressful and fearful experiences.The “No justice, no peace,” slogan stands true for all the oppressed and marginalized communities around the world. Be it in Indian-Occupied Kashmir, Palestine or in India. Using force is always counterproductive and will always be resisted. They might live in fear but they are driven by courage for their fundamental rights.African-Americans’ anger and deep resentment is justifiable, given the pain and humiliation they experience every single day. It stems from a long history of discrimination and persecution. To feel like outsiders and be treated as aliens in their own homeland! It was heartbreaking to hear a half-sobbing sports journalist in Los Angeles declare: “It is really so stressful being an African-American in this country.”This reminded me of my days in the USA when I worked for The Chicago Tribune as part of the Alfred Friendly Fellowship Program in 1992. Although Chicago had a large Black population there were only a few Black journalists working at the huge newspaper organization. And the ones I met hardly interacted with their White colleagues, although they had been working together for years. One sensed undercurrents of racial tension. I have a vivid memory of this long conversation I had with a senior reporter, James, whose workstation was next to mine. It was about how it felt being an African-American in the White-dominated newsroom. He told me that The Chicago Tribune had dispatched a team of reporters to investigate the Los Angeles riots earlier that year but not one Black reporter was on that team! That was the time of much talk about encouraging diversity in the national media to give a voice to the minorities and to better understand the issues they faced. Another African-American reporter, Wilma, pointed out that the Tribune Editorial Board was all White. Hopefully after 28 years more colour would have been added to it!James’ cynicism regarding a study on problems faced by the African-American youth, which proposed provision of more basketball courts and football fields as the solution, was understandable.Blacks in Chicago also resented the fact that when they moved to White-dominated affluent neighborhoods they were not welcomed and were treated as outsiders– a sentiment so frequently echoed a generation-and-half later!Shocking, shameful and tragic as the killing of George Floyd is, it could prove to be a turning point in American history of racial tension and violence. In addressing in earnest the core issues that blight the lives of 40 million strong African American communities in the USA. History tells us how at times a single event can change a society’s course for the better. A course-correction of sorts.A promising aspect of the 2020 protests is that the ‘Black lives Matter’ slogan is not only being raised by African-Americans but also their fellow citizens of all colours, including Whites. A sharp contrast to the Sixties Civil rights movement. This time around it is far more representative and diverse, as former US President Barack Obama also observed the other day. Strong involvement of young people on the streets gives him hope as he believes they have the power, energy and talent to make things change by making those in power “uncomfortable”.Even in his death George Floyd continues to live as the powerful slogan of ‘Black Lives Matter’ catches on across the USA. His legacy will be honored while his murderer will be condemned to the dustbin of history as will be the other three officers present on the scene."
M A Niazi,Riots in a time of covid-19,2020-06-05,"Trump has only made matters worseAT PENPOINTO mankind! Lo! We have created you male and female, and have made you nations and tribes that ye may know one another. Lo! the noblest of you, in the sight of Allah, is the best in conduct. Lo! Allah is Knower, Aware. (49: 13)The USA is now showing signs that race has coming to the fore. The protests in over 600 American cities over the killing of one African-American in Minneapolis have now started to become riots, with incidents of arson and looting. This should not be happening, because the USA has gone through the throes of the civil rights movement about half a century ago, and African-Americans are making headway in public life, with one, Barack Obama, even becoming President.However, just as the USA was the last bastion of anti-black discrimination, race remains an issue there. Blacks have been overtaken by yellows and browns, both of whom have faced discrimination from the dominant whites. It has been called ‘culture’ or ‘values’, but they are always under attack from outside. The USA remains the home of political correctness. Now extending to any kind of minority group, it started with the conscious decision to abandon certain words (most notably the n-word, a very strong no-no, used apparently only by black stand-up comedians) which were hurtful to blacks.One of the most significant issues in the USA is what constitutes a ‘black’. Actually, he (or she) might be white, even blond. It is perhaps symbolic that the USA’s first black President had a white mother. The difference between the average American black and a West African shows that there was considerable miscegenation in the past, with white masters mating with black slaves. This had happened with Arabs too, but whereas the children of slave mothers were free if their father was, in the Western world, they were born slaves.According to the Abrahamic faiths, all Mankind is descended from one couple, and after the Deluge, from the three sons of Noah. The descendants of those three make up the races of Mankind. There are obvious differences between a West African, an Indian and a Chinese, but what about mixtures? Not Obama, but all Myanmarese, who are apparently a mixture of Indian and Chinese.The race issue is likely to tear the USA apart, not just because it is a matter of justice, but because it shows immigrant minorities that if a minority which has fully internalized ‘American culture’ and has lived in the USA for more three centuries that they will not be accepted as full citizens, just because of their skin-colour, what chance have they?Colour plays a role, but race is now seen as a social construct, which can only be used to fulfill certain racial stereotypes. Like basketballers or heavyweight boxers are blacks. They are short blacks as well as tall whites, and light blacks and huge whites too. For example, the surprise by some that Minnesota, where a lot of Nordic immigrants settled, should have a black population large enough to riot, is stereotypical in its assumptions.The USA included the blacks in its constitution, equating six of them with one white, when it specified that the allocation of seats in the House of Representatives would be according to the population of free people plus a sixth of the slave population. The slaves counted for representation, but did not have the vote.The USA went through a Civil War before slavery was abolished, but the end of slavery did not mean an empowerment of blacks. In the south, they remained subject to a severe colour bar, and there were lynchings and discrimination against any ‘uppity’ blacks. The world was dominated by the white race, with very few independent non-white states, the non-white world being almost all parts of colonial empires.The dissolution of those empires coincided with the American civil rights movement. The empires had practiced racism too, and it had helped that the rulers, whether British, French, Belgian, Dutch or other, had all been white. There was the rise of fascism during the inter-war years that preceded the end of colonialism, which has since morphed into white supremacy. The defeat of the South in the US Civil War also carried an undercurrent of racism, and neo-Nazis and white supremacists got involved in supporting the South.Obama got elected, and that seemed like the blacks were finally getting their rights. Yet it was a spate of killings of black men, mostly youths, by white arresting officers, that marked the last years of his Presidency. Then came Trump’s election, beating a woman candidate. Women were natural allies of blacks, as they too were deprived of their rights by white males.The liberation of blacks, women and minorities was carried out because of the Enlightenment ideals inherent in the American Revolution. The first step was not taken by either blacks or women, but by first the Irish and then the Jews. Both were white, but excluded, because they were neither Anglo-Saxon nor Protestant. But has liberation taken place? A lot of the old rhetoric has been dialed down, but as happened in Minneapolis, black men still get killed by white cops. They might not be shot, as Floyd wasn’t, but they end up dead for non-capital offences. As recently as January, a black jogger was shot by a father-and-son passing by, who were not even cops.That is an old tactic. A couple of blacks became Roman Emperors, the first, being Macrinus, a Berber, who became Emperor after taking over in April 217. He was assassinated in June 218. Then there was Phillip the Arab, who reigned 222-249. Both had first commanded the Paetorian Guard, and then taken over for themselves. Colonies were freed, and turned over to Westernised elites.The words of the Quran establish Islam as an anti-racist religion, but it is not against the division of Mankind into nations and tribes, but it does so for a reason ‘that you may recognize one another’. This accepts that one’s inheritance matters, but there is an important qualification, that what matters in the sight of the Almighty, is one’s conduct. This is as strong a rejection of racial stereotypes as can be made.Not all religions take this stand. Christianity and Judaism used the Bible to justify slavery, and Hinduism is actually the only religion to base itself on racial divisions. It can be debated whether there is more to Hinduism that the four castes, but in this era of the BJP, it is doubtful if that debate matters. The BJP consists basically of caste Hindus trying to fight back against the Enlightenment ideals of the Congress Party (via Nehru’s Fabian socialism). It is symptomatic that the word for ‘caste’, varna, means colour. No wonder then that Indians (whether at home or in the diaspora) are racial bigots. Pakistanis are too, but this is an inheritance from a Hindu past. Higher castes which converted to Islam carried over their old castes, and preserved them by the practice of caste-endogamy. Lower castes were never allowed by their neighbours to forget their caste. Only now has there been some blurring of caste lines.One factor that has been mentioned only in passing has been the covid-19 epidemic. The race riots are seen as a distraction, which has perhaps concealed the role of the lockdown in the USA of creating the atmosphere for people to protest. Also, it should be noted that blacks have been hit that much harder, not because of some predisposition, but because they are poorer, suffer a higher proportion of predisposing morbidities, and are in more exposed professions like nursing or goods delivery.Will the USA survive? It probably will, but at the same time, the present riots have shown that race is an issue. The coming presidential election shows that blacks do not sit well with US democracy, which seems to be designed only for WASP (White Anglo-Saxon Protestant) males. If on the one hand, Donald Trump is linked to white supremacists, Joe Biden has very old links to the KKK (Ku Klux Klan). He might have been Obama’s Vice-President, but that was probably because he was supposed to have been the designated adult in the room.The race issue is likely to tear the USA apart, not just because it is a matter of justice, but because it shows immigrant minorities that if a minority which has fully internalized ‘American culture’ and has lived in the USA for more than three centuries that they will not be accepted as full citizens, just because of their skin-colour, what chance have they?"
Web Desk,To webinar or not to webinar?,2020-06-05,"Webinars are taking over, now that there is a pandemicBy: Dr Aneel SalmanWe have moved from the “age of uncertainty” to the “time of the coronavirus”. Through technology man has remained “social” and “connected” in this “new normal”. This is both remarkable and ironic since there was a time when devices and social media platforms were considered only for extracurricular connections. Online meeting tools have made it possible to work from home.Software companies had been using such tools way before covid-19 and as lockdowns were initiated, the corporate sector, non-profits and especially universities, started using these tools. In Pakistan, where the public (and the government) has been in a state of denial regarding this virus, we now suddenly see a surge in “webinars”, training webinars, educational webinars, discussion webinars, and more.Are we using these tools correctly? What is the effectiveness of these online forums? Is serious debate being generated through them? Or is the sole purpose remaining relevant in a rat race? If A is doing a webinar or podcast, why can’t B? Or is the purpose to show that one is “working”, “researching”, teaching”: How else to convince a donor, a dean, a research director that one is actually earning one’s income while sitting at home? Sadly, in Pakistan, we have yet to learn the benefits of Work From Home (WFH) from an organizational and institutional perspective. Employers remain certain that unless one is sitting in the actual office from 9-5, one is essentially “doing nothing.” And of course, since seminars and conferences cannot yet be organized (well, if marriagew halls can open, these might start too, who knows) – an essential part and parcel of many organizations now, a webinar is the next best thing.Before COVID-19, when non-profits and even government ministries organized any conference, workshop, seminar to satisfy their “donors” (anyone believing these spread awareness and make a difference, has only to attend a handful by think tanks in the capital), they would lure university students to fill the empty chairs, with the incentive of good (rather free) food, or in some cases transport, and a chance to listen to not one boring professor in class but quite a few in an air-conditioned hall. In the virtual world, this duplicity and lack of good content and speakers; this trend of hosting big seminars, calling political celebrities and bringing students to fill up chairs as part of a popularity contest, has come to an end.Local webinar organizers need to think of how to engage the viewers and what they can learn for them. Most webinars are doing discussion/analysis but webinars can be valuable when they focus on training or diffusing objective information on a discrete topic of shared concernBut, this is Pakistan and we know how to turn every good thing into a Frankenstein’s monster so, while earlier, it was impossible to meet government officials, NGO heads and experts because they were busy in non-stop meetings; the ‘new reason’ shared in a text message will be that they are busy in non-stop webinars. Now, one may not have to fill empty chairs, now one has to “log in” to show how many people “participated”! One of my colleagues had to “show” his presence in nine webinars in one day!THERE is an exponential increase of webinars by universities, think tanks and government agencies which may not have been such a bad thing except everyone is doing it on COVID and its impact on anything and everything. A newspaper editor shared that he got over 100 articles about COVID in two days. You might say what else is there except COVID but if you pick up one article or all 100 they will be saying almost the same thing. “Experts” write on COVID and then on the same day, turn it into a podcast or share this “wisdom” in a recorded webinar with five people tuned in (or rather out). In Pakistan, we love to recycle research; and are copy-paste gurus but thanks to COVID, we have taken self-projection and plagiarism to new highs.Are these webinars effective? Frankly, no. For one thing, Pakistanis have no webinar etiquette. Somehow most people don’t realize that WFH means doing office work in a structured and organized fashion. And if part of WFH involves, attending or presenting during a webinar then we should have the decency to be dressed up rather showing our pot bellies in shorts, messed up hair, have a decent background (and no, I don’t mean sit in front of the only bookshelf in the house). We should not attend our phone calls or be watering the plants till our turn comes. And yes, it would be nice if the organizers ensure that speakers are at least WELL PREPARED! That they are actually interesting people to listen to (and yes watch)! That they are aware of webinar etiquette and are technologically savvy! It is so amazing that most webinars being done in Pakistan are proudly uploaded on Facebook or YouTube or available on organizational websites without even being edited to remove improper language or conversations or hacking! I used to love watching America’s funniest home videos, but now, I rarely miss the chance to be amused by the ratpack webinars here.Given our technological backwardness at using these platforms, we have also seen webinars interrupted by political slogans, porn clips and absurd pics during live sessions. Moderators/organizers having left the “technical” side of hosting webinars to the one nerdy tech guy, are unable to control such interruptions, and often the webinar is postponed.Another problem with local webinars is that content is not tailored to the viewers and their new environment. Pakistani webinars offers few opportunities to engage with speakers in real time. Organizers are still stuck in introducing a speaker and then letting him or her drone on and on and on, rather than making these sessions short, focused and interactive.Let’s be honest, good quality webinars can be mind-blowing! To be able to hear and interact with renowned experts from literally any corner of the world, with the click of one “register” button, free of cost from the comfort of one’s room, is stupefying. So, there still remains a question as to why organizations (or we as a nation) weren’t using these technologies earlier and spent so much time in transporting speakers from one city to the next, paying for travel, accommodation, food, leaving huge paper trails of invite cards, letters etc. when the same meeting or seminar or even conference was possible online with none of these ridiculous attachments?Local webinar organizers need to think of how to engage the viewers and what they can learn for them. Most webinars are doing discussion/analysis but webinars can be valuable when they focus on training or diffusing objective information on a discrete topic of shared concern. Moderators should be skilled and create opportunities for dialogue and interaction, and provide the participants an incentive to demonstrate their expertise and ideas as well. Day, time and announcement is very crucial. Research shows that Tuesdays around 11:00 am have maximum participation. Of course, there is no way to completely avoid an occasional pitfall. The objective should be to conduct well-structured webinars with amazing tech-savvy speakers.The writer is a Behavioral Economist based in Islamabad. He can be reached at [email protected]"
Sultan M Hali,Hong Kong National Security Legislation—why it is required?,2020-06-05,"Plugging a hole through foreign interference crept inAt the conclusion of the 13th National People’s Congress (NPC) on May 28, China unanimously approved a plan to establish and improve the legal system and enforcement mechanisms for the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) to safeguard national security and suppress subversion, secession, terrorism and any acts that might threaten national security in the city.Apparently, there is an outcry in the West over alleged suppression of human rights. A closer examination of the legislation indicates that China’s principle of “one country, two systems,” has been preserved for “the people of Hong Kong governing Hong Kong,” with a high degree of autonomy.The legislation was necessitated by the increasingly notable national security risks in the HKSAR, which have become a prominent problem, challenging the bottom line of the “one country, two systems” principle, harmed the rule of law, and threatened national sovereignty, security and development interests.Article 23 of the Basic Law of the HKSAR stipulates that the HKSAR shall enact laws on its own to prohibit any act of treason, secession, sedition, subversion against the Central People’s Government, or theft of state secrets, to prohibit foreign political organizations or bodies from conducting political activities in the HKSAR, and to prohibit political organizations or bodies of the HKSAR from establishing ties with foreign political organizations or bodies.In a nutshell, the law firmly safeguards national security; upholding and improving the “one country, two systems”; adhering to governing Hong Kong in accordance with the law; resolutely opposing external interference and substantially safeguarding the legitimate rights and interests of Hong Kong residents.The decision comprises seven articles, which ensure that the country will unswervingly, fully and faithfully implement the principles of “one country, two systems,” “the people of Hong Kong governing Hong Kong,” and a high degree of autonomy; stresses taking necessary measures to establish and improve the legal system and enforcement mechanisms for the HKSAR to safeguard national security, as well as prevent, stop and punish activities endangering national security in accordance with the law.It will protect the law-abiding Hong Kong citizens, who are the overwhelming majority, guarantee the legitimate rights and interests of Hong Kong residents and foreign institutions and personnel in Hong Kong, and safeguard the fundamental interests of the state and the HK Special Autonomous Region. It also serves the common interests of the international community. Hong Kong remains China’s internal matter and external agencies have no right to interfereSecondly, the country resolutely opposes the interference in the HKSAR affairs by any foreign or external forces in any form and will take necessary countermeasures. Thirdly, it specifies that it is the HKSAR’s constitutional responsibilities to safeguard national sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity; stresses that the HKSAR must complete the national security legislation stipulated in the Basic Law of the HKSAR at an earlier date and HKSAR’s administrative, legislative and judicial organs must, in accordance with relevant laws and regulations, effectively prevent, stop and punish acts endangering national security. The fourth article specifies that the HKSAR must establish and improve the institutions and enforcement mechanisms for safeguarding national security; when needed, relevant national security organs of the Central People’s Government will set up agencies in the HKSAR to fulfill relevant duties to safeguard national security in accordance with the law. Additionally, Article 5 specifies that the HKSAR chief executive must regularly report to the Central People’s Government on the HKSAR’s performance of the duty to safeguard national security, carry out national security education and forbid acts of endangering national security. The legislation specifies the constitutional meanings of related legislation of the NPC Standing Committee, entrusting it to formulate relevant laws on establishing and improving the legal system and enforcement mechanisms for the HKSAR to safeguard national security. Finally, Article 7 specifies that this decision shall go into effect as of the date of promulgation.Questions arise as to why this decision was necessitated. Hong Kong is part of China and as such, it shoulders the constitutional responsibility of safeguarding national security. But it has long been defenseless in terms of national security. Under the Basic Law, the HKSAR’s constitutional document, Hong Kong shall enact laws on its own to safeguard national security. This is known as Article 23, which had become so stigmatized and demonized in Hong Kong that it is, in fact, very difficult for the HKSAR Legislative Council (LegCo) to fulfill its legal responsibility of enacting relevant laws. This legal loophole was exploited by local and foreign anti-China forces, making activities jeopardizing national security rampant in Hong Kong.It may be recalled that last year, rioters besieged the HKSAR government headquarters and public agencies, broke into and vandalized the HKSAR LegCo building, trashed metro stations, banks and stores, assaulted police officers, set fires on the streets, beat up tourists and residents and even made terrorist threats.The advantages of the national security legislation are that it will solidify the “one country, two systems” principle, under which Hong Kong has a high degree of autonomy and retains its own capitalist economy and legal system.It is not understood what all the hullabaloo is about because the national security legislation only targets those who attempt to split the country, subvert state power, and organize and carry out terrorist activities, as well as foreign and external forces seeking to interfere in Hong Kong’s affairs.The extensive rights and freedoms enjoyed by Hong Kong residents, such as freedom of speech, freedom of the press, right to assembly and demonstration, to engage in academic research, to travel and to enter or leave the HKSAR will all remain fully protected by the Basic Law, the Hong Kong Bill of Rights Ordinance and other laws.The legislation will not affect foreign investors’ legitimate interests in Hong Kong. Instead, it will make Hong Kong a safer and more stable place and improve the confidence of local and overseas investors in doing business in Hong Kong.Hong Kong’s status as a separate customs territory is recognized by the World Trade Organization and is guaranteed by the Basic Law of the HKSAR.Interestingly, major Western countries, including the USA and the UK, have their own national security laws and created a large number of cases through judicial practices.The National Security Act of the United States was signed into law by then US President Harry Truman on 26 July 1947. The USA also enacted the Patriot Act after the September 11 attacks and the Cloud Act.Britain passed the Official Secrets Act of 1911 to tackle espionage and renewed it with the Official Secrets Act of 1989. Several more acts on anti-terrorism and national security were enacted after the September 11 attacks. In general, Western countries have built sound legal systems on national security, covering legislation, law enforcement, prosecution, trials and other aspects.Hong Kong has preserved its common law system since returning to the motherland in 1997, independent from the system adopted on the Chinese mainland.The legislation will only plug the very apparent loopholes and legal vacuum in national security. It does not affect Hong Kong courts which, under the Basic Law, exercise independent judicial power, including that of final adjudication.National security is a basic precondition for the existence and development of a nation and it concerns the nation’s core interests. In all countries, unitary and federal alike, only the State legislature has the legislative power on issues concerning national security. The Chinese Central Government bears the primary and ultimate responsibility for safeguarding national security. Safeguarding national security is the core of “one country, two systems” and the foundation for its existence. Only when national security is ensured can Hong Kong enjoy prosperity and stability. To establish and improve a legal framework and enforcement mechanism for safeguarding national security in the HKSAR is to prohibit a very small number of people from splitting the country, subverting state power, organizing and carrying out terrorist activities, and foreign and external forces from interfering in the affairs of the HKSAR. It will protect the law-abiding Hong Kong citizens, who are the overwhelming majority, guarantee the legitimate rights and interests of Hong Kong residents and foreign institutions and personnel in Hong Kong, and safeguard the fundamental interests of the state and the HKSAR. It also serves the common interests of the international community. Hong Kong remains China’s internal matter and external agencies have no right to interfere."
Kamil Ahmed,Pressing the button amidst pressler,2020-06-03,"The decision 20 years was a choice between sanctions and securityAfter the nuclear tests conducted by India on 11 May 1998, Pakistan’s nuclear testing in response to its neighbour was a foregone conclusion. A country much smaller in geographical, military and economic terms than its neighbour which had a far-right BJP government in place, was left with little or no option but to follow the path of its rival to establish parity.There were hawks in the cabinet as well as pro-restraint members but as the fourth week of May approached pro-restraint members of cabinet lost ground. It is interesting to note that in later years pro-restraint members of cabinet suddenly joined hawks to cash in on the political capital which the bomb had to offer.Dr. Samar Mubarakmand, who was the head of test team, was invited by the Prime Minister to his office and was asked to initiate preparations for the test. When Samar asked about the no of detonations ,Mian Sahab responded in Punjabi: “Tussi ik ziada karna ai” (You are supposed to do one more).Pakistan had already done cold tests as early as 6 October using high-density tungsten alloy as target instead of Uranium 235 to purposely not obtain yield. A year after cold tests in August 1985, the Pressler Amendment was passed by Congress banning most military and economic aid to Pakistan unless the President certified on annual basis that Pakistan did not ‘possess’ a nuclear bomb which was continuously provided by Ronald Reagan till he stayed in the office.However on 28 May 1998 Pakistan detonated five nuclear devices at Chaghi Hills to level the score with India and one nuclear device on May 30 at Kharan site inside a vertical well to go one up, as the PM advised. The nuclear device detonated at Kharan site was a miniature bomb and it went on to become the warhead of Shaheen-1. Shaheen-1 is a solid-fuel-powered short-to-medium range surface-to-surface guided ballistic missile.That even the nuclear umbrella couldn’t rid Pakistan of its security anxieties and our defense budget has been on a rise since, suggests that Pakistan’s problem and its solution lies elsewhere, which I am leaving to my readers’ imagination. U we recognize and deal with that problem, our common man doesn’t stand a chance in the race for growth, dignity and stabilityFor Pakistan what followed after 11 May was a security vs sanctions scenario. Hence to project better understanding of the decision making, here is a brief rundown of the US sanctions and their vconsequences on Pakistan.The US imposed its very first sanction (military) on Pakistan in 1965 when Pakistan used US-manufactured military equipment against India. Again in 1971 the USA imposed another executive military sanction on Pakistan for violating human rights in East Pakistan.Then came the Symington Amendment (to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961) in 1977. This was a legislative sanction and banned both economic and military assistance in response to Pakistan’s unabated pursuit of the French uranium-reprocessing plant deal.France as a consequence halted the supply of nuclear equipment for a reprocessing facility at Chashma after Pakistan refused the french offer of co-processing of uranium instead of a reprocessing unit. Although despite the sanctions Pakistan continued to receive $50 million annually coupled with the food aid programme.In 1979 the most stringent set of sanctions, Glenn and Symington were imposed.The Symington amendment prohibits US economic and military assistance to any country delivering or receiving nuclear enrichment equipment, material, or technology not under International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards.But fortunately for Pakistan, the USSR invaded Afghanistan and all sanctions on Pakistan were lifted beginning a decade-long alliance between unequal partners.Immediately after the Cold War ended, the Pressler Amendment (Section 620E(e) of Foreign Assistance Act of 1961) sanctions were imposed on Pakistan when George W. Bush didn’t provide annual certification regarding possession of nuclear device by Pakistan.I talked to Mushahid Hussain Syed who was a key cabinet member of Mian Nawaz Sharif and discussed the prevailing situation at the time. Mushahid said, “The paramount consideration was security, as India’s tests had changed the balance of power from a conventional to a nuclear scenario. Another consideration, which I underlined to the Prime Minister when he sought my advice while we were together in Almaty, Kazakhstan, on 11 May 11, was the timing and context. Since India had already taken the first fateful step, it was, in my view ‘a golden opportunity’, a situation of ‘now or never’ for Pakistan, to respond in kind to what India had already done. And the world would be ready and willing to accept a Muslim nuclear power as we were going to follow India’s lead.”When asked about possibilities of further sanctions Mushahid said, “In a situation of more sanctions versus greater security, the debate for greater ‘impregnable’ security via The Bomb won out. After all, Pakistan had been working on the Bomb Project for a quarter of a century with relentless, single-minded determination. The fruit of that hard work was finally going to get results with Pakistan becoming a nuclear power.”He further added, “We were banking on our friends to alleviate the pain of the sanctions that we expected would come. Saudi Arabia, for instance, gave generous help with their assistance for deferred oil payments, approximately $2 billion relief. President Clinton offered a financial quid pro quo, of approximately $5 billion, which Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif rejected, as the decision to go nuclear had already been taken. Secondly, the assumption was that the nuclearisation of South Asia would be accepted as a fait accompli by the international community, given the high stakes of peace, security and stability involving Pakistan-India relations.”Pressler by far was the longest serving sanction imposed on Pakistan and it was amidst Pressler that Pakistan decided to go ahead with its nuclear tests. Immediately after that Glenn amendment sanctions were imposed which prohibits US economic and military support to any country that acquires or transfers nuclear reprocessing technology, or explodes or transfers a nuclear device.Within a span of three months from May to July of 1998, the Pakistani rupee devalued 28 percent in the open market and fell from 45 to 63 rupees. Foreign exchange reserves fell from $1.3 billion to $500 million. The Karachi stock exchange fell by 34 percent while GDP growth was revised down from 6 percent to3 percent.Though Pakistan again had its way around the sanctions when Bill Clinton on 7 November 1998 waived the economic sanctions on Pakistan for one year using the Brownback amendment but till date Pakistan couldn’t get its way around its socio-economic worries.Our economy is shrinking as GDP growth rate is expected to be negative 1.5 percent this year, mostly due to covid-19 but we weren’t doing great otherwise. Unemployment has been on the rise. The country repeatedly flirts with the possibility of bankruptcy and is dependent on foreign aid/loans/grants. We have failed to allow democracy find roots in Pakistan so much so that the contemporary government formed by Imran Khan in the center is at best a hybrid regime with military appointments at key government positions (PIA, NDMA, Information Ministry, WAPDA, among others). Pakistan is yet to reap benefits of civilian spin-offs of military technology. Our socio-economic indicators are anything but promising.That even the nuclear umbrella couldn’t rid Pakistan of its security anxieties and our defense budget has been on a rise since, suggests that Pakistan’s problem and its solution lies elsewhere, which I am leaving to my readers’ imagination. U we recognize and deal with that problem, our common man doesn’t stand a chance in the race for growth, dignity and stability."
Dr James J Zogby,A hopeful vision of service,2020-06-03,"Rising above ourselvesI’ve been deeply distressed by the growing political backlash to the restrictions that many states and local governments have put in place to stop the spread of the coronavirus. Most troubling is the extent to which the pandemic has become a partisan football, with polls showing Democrats and Republicans as divided on this issue as they are on other hot button political matters.Reports of armed demonstrators demanding that governors open up their states, conservative church leaders insisting that they be able to reopen their houses of worship, and rank and file Republicans refusing to wear masks at work or public events, mimicking the behavior of President Trump and Vice President Pence– all have caused me to despair. I had begun to feel as if the “better angels of our nature” had fallen silent.Like many of you, I’m working from home. Meetings have become Zoom calls or Google chats– and there are plenty of them. For example, because we’re preparing our community for the November elections and mobilizing them to ensure a full count in the 2020 Census– in the past few weeks, I’ve had organizing calls with Arab American activists in several states. I’ve joined planning meetings with ethnic leaders on immigration reform. And I had two national Zoom calls to launch my newest book. All of these efforts proved to be quite productive, making clear the power of new technology to bring people together.One call, in particular, stood out both for its novelty and the lesson of hope I learned as a participant. Because we cannot gather in groups, AMVOTE, a Chicago-based group (on whose board I sit) held a “virtual Iftar.” This in itself was novel because Iftars are important communal activities. Since, we can’t be together, in person, AMVOTE made the best of a difficult situation and the result was both informative and inspiring.In attendance, via Zoom, were the Governor of Illinois, the Mayor of Chicago, the President of the Cook County of Board of Commissioners, and representatives of dozens of local Arab American and Muslim institutions. I was deeply moved as I listened to these organizations describing their remarkable work in response to the pandemic and heard the Governor and Mayor praising them for the hundreds of volunteers they mobilized to serve the needs of thousands of families and individuals in the Chicagoland area.This vision of men and women acting selflessly to serve those in need is what is happening every day, in cities and towns across the country. By lifting it up and celebrating service we point the way forward to not only winning the battle against the coronavirus, but to emerging from this war as a stronger, more compassionate countrySince I was scheduled to give the “Iftar’s” closing remarks, I could not help but reflect on how moved I was to learn of all of the important work these groups were doing and how they had opened my eyes to a reality I knew was taking place in communities across the country– but to which I had not given the attention it deserved. Millions of Americans, and I’m sure this is happening all over the world, are in fact hearing and responding to the voices of their better angels.The tweeting harangues of President Trump or the behavior of the armed militants or self-serving demands of conservative preachers may be getting the headlines. But in communities nationwide, doctors and nurses daily are putting themselves in harm’s way to serve the sick and dying. Thousands of young people are volunteering to buy groceries and run errands for the elderly. And countless churches, mosques, and synagogues and social service agencies are providing essential services to those in need.So while the noisy backlash to the pandemic is dominating the news and can be depressing, it is important to lift up all of these silent heroes whose efforts, though unconnected and not the subject of headlines, cry out to be recognized. What is needed is to lift them up, knit them together, and see them as a collective response to the crisis which we are facing.A few days after my eyes had been opened by the “virtual Iftar” I listened to the homily given by a priest friend of mine, Reverend Percy D’Silva. Reflecting on the very same issue – the selfless service of millions – he concluded his homily in an unorthodox manner by quoting the words of “We Are the World,” a 1985 song by a number of popular recording artists to raise funds to combat African famine.“There comes a timeWhen we heed a certain callWhen the world must come together as oneThere are people dyingOh, and it’s time to lend a hand to life.The greatest gift of all…“We are the worldWe are the childrenWe are the ones who make a brighter day, so let’s start givingThere’s a choice we’re makingWe’re saving our own livesIt’s true we’ll make a better day, just you and me.”This vision of men and women acting selflessly to serve those in need is what is happening every day, in cities and towns across the country. By lifting it up and celebrating service we point the way forward to not only winning the battle against the coronavirus, but to emerging from this war as a stronger, more compassionate country."
M J Akbar,Surviving the lockdown,2020-06-03,"A time to watch old movies and hit the booksBooks talk. Writing talks back. It is a happy conversation in that tentative space called isolation. Once reading is gently separated from immediate necessity or functional utility, it acquires a sui generis pleasure that rejoices in tangential glimpses of some reflected truth. Witness: a long-forgotten biography of the architect of German unity with a Prussian face, Otto von Bismarck by the great A.J.P. Taylor.In 1838, the age of 24, Bismarck briefly contemplated coming to India in the service of the Raj, possibly inspired by a brief romance with the British lady touring Germany. Before a final decision Bismarck asked himself what must be one of the great rhetorical questions of the era: “What harm have the Indians done to me?”Was Bismarck being Bismarck, or a German? Interestingly, Germany never seemed as enthusiastic as Spain or England or France or Netherlands about ruling distant lands. Instead, Berlin invested its energies on conquering those who had conquered the world. Within another generation, the centripetal forces unleashed by the united Germany of Bismarck and the centrifugal ambitions of fellow Europeans ended in a blood-soaked heap that took over 150 million lives in two catastrophic world wars. All these “great powers” had one thing in common. A Prussian maxim controlled their strategic philosophy: “Unless we grow greater, we shall become less”.Nimmi did occasionally try and elide the tragic village belle routine. Her looks were haunting, her eloquence was literary, her career was testimony to talent. She is among the last to leave us among a generation that dominated decades of screen presence. Raj Kapoor, Dev Anand, Guru Dutt, Nargis, Madhubala, Nutan, Sadhana, Johnny Walker and so many othersDROPIf books are dialogue, the movies I prefer are much-loved chatter. Nearly every evening of lockdown has been lifted by an old classic in the splendid spectrum from Dev Anand to Cary Grant, or leavened by the restaurant-wit of a 1990s TV series like Seinfeld.Paying Guest is the perfect movie for isolation angst. It wafts on the brisk breeziness that Dev Anand brought to all his films, taking it to memorable heights in Kaala Paani. Madhubala [at least twice in the role of a newspaper reporter] was Dev’s perfect foil, but stars like Nalini Jayant, Kalpana Kartik, Geeta Bali, Nutan and Sadhana were equally in their element opposite him.In Paying Guest Dev is a briefless lawyer who loses cases with a shrug and a smile. Naturally he has no money, which is bad news for his landlords. Fast forward. Poverty is never a barrier to true love. He woos and wins Nutan on a borrowed bicycle, but her father is not so generous when it comes to extracting rent from the penniless lawyer, who is also a paying guest, albeit disguised, in their house.There inevitably arrives the dilemma-day when he must either pay the rent of be thrown out. Nutan’s solution is worthy of some high priest of the Reserve Bank of India.She loans Dev money her father gave for household expenses. But how will she then buy groceries for the day’s meals? he asks. That, replies Nutan, is not a problem. When her father gets the rent he will give the money back to her, and she can then buy the groceries.The money re-enters the market under another name, but everyone is happy: the rent is paid and food is purchased. Everyone survives the crisis and waits for the moment when surplus earnings can be created through a paying client or a regular job. This monetary policy does not work when it becomes a gift; for a gift can only be a one-time solution. A loan buys time as well as food. The time can be used for job-creation.Paying Guest was released in 1957, so production must have started around 1955. At the time government decisions were made which imprisoned the economy into state-controlled pseudo-socialism and extracted such a high price in the 1960s, when hopelessness promoted Naxalism, and actual famine devastated the second half of the decade.* * *The most boring comment on this dread-driven pandemic is that it will lead to a new world order. Well, long before any new order there is going to be some serious new disorder. But once we manage that peril, will some shining new Jerusalem rise up upon a hill? Is 2020 Year Zero of a new era? Will 2021 be 1 PC [Post-Corona]?If so, then this will be the first age of mankind born of existential fear: of disintegration, isolation, and death (the ultimate combination of disintegration and isolation). Past eras have started with years of optimism. If the future of the 21st century is born of death, then the possibilities for the living become creative. Like the British artist David Hockney reducing the cause of all death to a simple fact: birth.Order is the effort to shape the few decades in our life’s remit into rational, collective behaviour that does not extinguish life before its time, and makes survival as comfortable as possible.What we do know now, is that fear is both the great equalizer and an extremely effective disciplinarian. Who would have thought that the lockdown would have brought as free-spirited a people as Indians to a voluntary halt? Indians not going to work may be par for the course, but Indians not going to marriages is about as superhuman as it gets. One of the more remarkable experiences was the discipline and concern with which the overwhelming majority of Muslims behaved during Ramzan.A demonstration of a credible leader’s impact on the national mood came when Narendra Modi reminded Indians, and indeed the world, that the pandemic did not discriminate on the basis of religion or caste or creed or colour. It was time once again to unite in a crisis. The response was visible across the country, and even during the turbulence faced by migrant labour rushing to villages, driven by poverty and fear of the unknown. There were thousands of stories of Indians helping one another in moving ways, evocative of our values.If the people participate in the creation of a new world order, we might achieve something sustainable and democratic. India’s pride is its democracy, and it will be a template. If there is a new world order, authoritarian regimes will be shunted into the dustbin of the past.* * *Here is some glitter from one such dustbin.British imperialists, and that special pedigree of empire bureaucrats, had one excellent trait. They knew how to laugh through their stiff upper lips. The British understood, and continue to, that you have no right to laugh at others unless you can laugh at yourself.And so the term that they employed for cash to “native” worthies in their colonies was “King George’s cavalry”. This was King George V, grandson of Queen Victoria, whose long reign was between 1910 and 1936. The four Georges before him were colourful characters. When these Georges called out the cavalry, they meant the real thing, not its substitute in gold coin. But neither the sword of the 19th century nor the gold of the 20th saved the acquisition by conquest, sustained by collaboration with puppets within the “subject races”.* * *When the final mathematics is done, probably by next year, we may yet find that more people tired of the watery humour on social media than those who were enthused by it. However, I was grateful for one message sent recently by a friend.On 25 March one of the great actresses of the 20th century, Nawab Banoo, passed away, forgotten in the gloom and uncertainty of the first week of lockdown. She is better recognised by the screen name given in 1949 by her great colleague, Raj Kapoor, for their first film together, Barsaat. Nimmi.In popular cinema, you can never escape the stereotype, not just because casting directors make such decisions but also because audiences find their comfort zones in the familiar. Nimmi did occasionally try and elide the tragic village belle routine. Her looks were haunting, her eloquence was literary, her career was testimony to talent. She is among the last to leave us among a generation that dominated decades of screen presence. Raj Kapoor, Dev Anand, Guru Dutt, Nargis, Madhubala, Nutan, Sadhana, Johnny Walker and so many others: they must all be in the big theatre above the sky-bowl, surely having the time of their eternal lives.Don’t expect them to be defeated by something as marginal as death."
Web Desk,Pandemic preparedness,2020-06-02,"We must prepare for future pandemicsBy: Dr Jawad MushtaqIn 2015 Bill Gates warned us that the world was not ready for the next pandemic, but viruses were out there mutating waiting for an outbreak. In the past century we have seen the flu pandemics of 1917, 1957, 1968 and 2009. We have already seen three corona pandemics in the first 20 years of this century alone and do not forget Ebola and Zika virus epidemics. Any new disease transmitted by air will spread like fire in this global village, giving no time for any country to prepare for itself. In desperate times of war when countries are ready to defend themselves with deadly atomic weapons why not just prepare a deadly virus in lab, also prepare a vaccine for immunization of your own country, and then unleash that virus onto the world? To some it still may seem more ethical than using nuclear weapons, whose ionizing radiations can haunt the remaining population for the next century. Rogue nations can entertain this idea easily, and Iran which has been pushed to the corner again and again just to protect the strategic interests of Saudi Arabia and Israel might find this not very expensive solution amusing, to avoid the fate of Iraq nothing seems unethical, but what if this not so expensive weapon becomes a fantasy of some terrorist, whatever the reason.If this pandemic has taught us one thing, it is to always be ready for the outbreak of a virus, whether once in a 50 years or six times in just 20. Pandemic preparedness should be made a part of strategic doctrine from now on.We are living in an age of globalization where a humble cup of coffee requires 29 firms to collaborate across 18 countries according to one estimate, where China supplies roughly 10 percent of the world’s intermediate goods, where test kit swabs are produced in Northern Italy, exam gloves in Malaysia, personal protective equipment in Cambodia, face masks in china. But what happens to this efficient global supply chain in a pandemic? More than 50 governments have so for restricted the export of medical supplies. Trump pressed 3M, a US multinational which make masks, to divert more of them home, at the expense of other countries. The EU has curbed the export of medical gear. India, the world’s biggest maker of generic drugs, has banned the export of hydroxychloroquine, an antimalarial drug that some suggest might treat covid-19. Take a look at the statement of US trade advisor Peter Navarro “if we have learnt anything from this crisis, it is that never again should we depend on the rest of the world for our essential medicines and counter measures “.In the absence of a vaccine and any effective medicine, mass testing is the only weapon available out there, but our country still has not invested on a large scale to ramp up the production lines for developing PCR machines and for developing test kits for coronavirus at a massive level, we are still waiting for other countries to mass-produce for themselves first and then for us, and the easing of lockdown should coincide with mass testing. It is the only exit strategy available out thereAlso taken a look at the statement of Amitabh Kant, who is chairing the empowered committee for strategizing ways to tackle the spread of coronavirus in India, “India needs to build a manufacturing base for ventilators and personal protective equipment (PPEs) not only to contain the spread of Covid-19 but for the future pandemic prepardness as well.” The coronavirus has reinforced an old idea that in an uncertain world some industries are “strategic”, simply too important for countries to leave to free markets and so deserve special protection. First the world faced the shortage of masks because they are not easy to produce, Both the masks made for medical personnel and for consumer purchase require a once-obscure material called melt-blown fabric. It’s an extremely fine mesh of synthetic polymer fibers that forms the critical inner filtration layer of a mask, allowing the wearer to breath while reducing the inflow of possible infectious particles. Costing upward of 3.8 million euros ($4.23 million) apiece, the machine that creates this fabric melts down plastic material and blows it out in strands, like cotton candy, into flat sheets of melt-blown fabric for face masks and other filtration products. Chinese engineering firms say they’re struggling. “We need about six months to make the machines, and it takes another month to assemble them”.China made half the world’s face masks. When the outbreak took off there, China started to use its supply and hoard what remained. This problem has only spread since, as more and more countries hoard whatever medical supplies they can get, banning export of medical equipment at the same time. Similarly countries which relied on home grown personal protective equipment had necessary know to scale up production on a massive scale to fight the virus efficiently but countries like Pakistan have been left to fend for themselves.The earth is going to need the addition of a whole new chapter in terms of free trade when it comes to trade of medical supplies, in future every country should incentivise the production of medical equipment at home first through heavy duties on imports and then through complete ban on import, and through the WTO it should be made the global agenda that every country should be self-sufficient and should not rely on complex global supply chains for the supply of medical equipment because at times of war and disaster, disruption of these supply chains can prove disastrous for any country relying on it.The world is already familiar with idea of war games which test the combat readiness of troops of any country. But now it is time to promote the idea of germ games, already being held in the USA, which show the ability of any country to fight with epidemics and pandemics, test the abilities of doctors to identify the pathogen, its mode of transmission and its mode of action in the human body and how quickly they can identify the efficiency of a different medical substitute already available out there, and the whole exercise should somehow culminate in designing an effective vaccine.Ideally vaccine research should be funded in such a way that during an outbreak, a vaccine could be designed, tested for safety and could be made ready for manufacture at a massive scale within a few months. The world is still at least 12 months away from the availability of a vaccine, and while the lockdown can continue for another month, but what about the remaining 11 months? What is the plan of action, how are we going to live with the virus for at least a year? In the absence of a vaccine and any effective medicine, mass testing is the only weapon available out there, but our country still has not invested on a large scale to ramp up the production lines for developing PCR machines and for developing test kits for coronavirus at a massive level, we are still waiting for other countries to mass-produce for themselves first and then for us, and the easing of lockdown should coincide with mass testing. It is the only exit strategy available out there."
Mohsin Saleem Ullah,Halting the upsurge of future pandemics,2020-06-02,"Lessons all can learnIt seemed recently, that Africa was confronted with the outbreak of the highly infectious Ebola virus disease in 2014. But the incredible heroism of certain front liners to the commendable efforts of the African governments, rose to the occasion and kept the virus in check. That coupled with efforts from stakeholders, the private sector, and international aid organizations, contributed significantly to how the virus was effectively controlled. The world lauded Africa — its proactive and preventive measures.It is however not precisely breaking news that Africa, and the world at large, has been hit by another infectious disease, the Coronavirus. All the headlines have been devoted entirely to news about it. And you’re probably not mistaken if you think it is about how Africa, despite having a supposed proud history of dealing with an infectious disease, still can’t boast of containing the pandemic. It seems to appear Africa has not kept up its preparedness enough since the Ebola virus. Thus, there is an expedient need to examine the crucial role of the African governments in stemming pandemics.The saying, “prevention is better than cure,” remains true. And it is on this premise that African governments must know no amount of lockdown, total or partial, can ever replace proactive measures. At the top is an efficient healthcare system. They have for years recklessly neglected properly funding their healthcare systems. The current pandemic has revealed an infrastructural health deficit will always come to hunt them. Since the pandemic began, they have run a shelter for additional hospital beds and isolation centres.Also, they have had to greatly suffer from much too few ventilators. And consequently, critically ill patients suffering died. This is exacerbated by their hospitals’ unreliable electricity, insufficient equipment to deliver quality healthcare services, and shortage of medical supplies and clinical staff. Hence, the most reasonable outcome to stem the surge of future pandemics is an African improved, well-funded healthcare system. The most exciting news of this crisis is that it is offering them a clean slate.Social distancing and self-isolation are paramount. These protocols are tested in previous pandemics in previous times like the 1918 Spanish flu. But the measures are often more effective the governments adequately provide social needs and safety nets to mitigate the citizens’ losses. The lockdown has been the most difficult for many Africans who require daily toiling to put food on the table.If there is ever any virus they need to kick out against future pandemics, it will be one of misplaced priority. Now, more than ever, it is crystal clear that scientific researches play a huge role in fostering the development of their country. The governments need to heavily invest in infectious disease research and also build state-of-the-art research institutes and laboratories. Besides, adequate resources, both financial and technical, should be offered to local scientists. This will allow them to experience scientific breakthroughs and produce home-grown solutions that will impact health of the citizens and halt the upsurge of future pandemics. Like in Senegal, where local health experts and laboratory technicians developed critical interventions during the pandemic, which led to creating a $1 testing kit and $100 ventilator. It’s high time Africa start diverting budgets from non-pressing sectors to public health. The African governments must indeed be alive to setting priorities right.The current pandemic has again taught them that the autonomy of their local government is non-negotiable. And more importantly, there is a need for decentralization of powers. As seen, the Federal and State governments cannot handle matters alone. In such times, there has been little, or no development orchestrated from the very center. Whether it is the distribution of palliatives and any other essential materials or localizing measures to address the realities of various communities, it all boils down to the need of an efficient local government to facilitate the processes. It cannot simply be stressed enough that the efficiency and autonomy of the local government authorities, prompted by the African governments, have an essential role to play in how well they contain future pandemics. In the bargain, one cannot think of a country that is prosperous without a maximally functioning local government.Most seriously impacted Western countries have both relatively resilient healthcare systems, and financial and institutional wherewithal to mitigate its impact. However, Africa, does not have the required capacity to withstand this. This is why containing the virus by the African governments, must be taken more seriously now than ever. They need concrete plans. The African governments must be able to assure the citizenry that post-pandemic recovery will be entirely different this time.Consequently, the African governments must be able to follow through the post-COVID recovery with an effective action plan. They should commit to drawing lessons and start doing things differently. After the current pandemic, they should be able to point out that we critically learned this, they are adopting that, they are implementing this and we are doing away with that. Only then we can safely forge new ways African governments can effectively play a role in future pandemics.Social distancing and self-isolation are paramount. These protocols are tested in previous pandemics in previous times like the 1918 Spanish flu. But the measures are often more effective the governments adequately provide social needs and safety nets to mitigate the citizens’ losses. The lockdown has been the most difficult for many Africans who require daily toiling to put food on the table.Most of the countries where the virus had ravaged, and lockdowns been effective, have in place both credible and practical palliatives to mitigate some of the resulting economic hardship. Even if Africa has the financial wherewithal, her system or her institutions must be strong enough to ensure fair distribution of the food relief items. The African governments need to do much better than the approach of handling cash and food stuff to citizens. But even if they want to do something better, their comatose systems and institutions are an instant let down. An all-encompassing national database is critical for them in halting future pandemics. And it is no longer a question of “if” but “when.” Hopefully, critical lessons would have been learned when the dust of the current pandemic is settled."
Malik Muhammad Ashraf,The ringing alarm bells,2020-06-02,"The government has done wellWhile it was reassuring to hear the claims of the NDMA chairman during a recent press briefing that the capacity of the country to treat coronavirus patients patients, that medical equipment and the number of available ventilators in the country both with the government and private hospitals had so far been utilized only to the extent of only 20 percent and efforts were on the anvil to further expand them in the near future, it is equally worrying to note that the number of the corona affected persons in the country is snowballing at a terrific pace.As of June 2, the number of confirmed affected persons stood at 76,398. The NCOC revealed that during the last 24 hours more than 3000 cases have been added to the tally whereas 92 lives were lost in a single day, the highest number per day so far. It may be pertinent to mention that the number of the confirmed patients stood at 37,218 on 15 May. So there has been an addition of more than 41,000 to the list during the last 18 days. By the time this piece is read, the figure would probably be much higher indicating the enormity of the challenge that the country might have to confront in the near future if the rate of infections is not adequately contained. Health SAPM Dr.Zafar Mirza in the meantime has dismissed the rumours of a health facilities crisis in the country as of today. Let us hope the country does not have to face a situation where the existing health facilities become inadequate.The current situation has really set the alarm bells ringing. The additional cause for anxiety is that more than 500 health professionals, including 160 doctors performing duties on the front line, contracted the virus and many of them even failed to survive the ordeal. However the redeeming factor is that more than 25,954 people have also recovered. But the stark reality is that the available health facilities, medical equipment and the ventilators may not be enough to cope with the situation if it gets out of hand.We as a nation have to adopt a futuristic approach to deal with the pandemic. Pakistan with its fledgling economy and the existing social realities is not in a position to absorb the shock waves triggered by the pandemic as even the most affluent nations are finding it difficult to save themselves from its adverse economic and social implications. From the initial response of complete or partial lockdown aimed at containment of the virus, the focus has now shifted to living with the virus through creation of balance between keeping the economic wheel churning and saving human lives. That seems a new normal at the global level.Surely nothing happens without divine will which is also a part of our faith. The people, apart from strictly following the social distancing guidelines, also need to pray to the Almighty to condone their sins, secure them from the ravages of the pandemic and crown the efforts of the government with success in tackling the pandemic. God save us all from the snowballing and unprecedented contagionIt may be said in earnest that the PTI government has done a remarkable job in dealing with the emerging situation, in conformity with the economic and social realities. It has rightly resorted to providing relief and succour to the vulnerable sections of the society through different initiatives under the Ehsas initiative while also taking measures to open up the economy to avoid undesirable consequences of a complete shutdown.The new approach adopted by the global community as well as Pakistan– which Prime Minister been advocating since the emergence of the virus— puts a greater emphasis on the masses realizing their social and national responsibilities in strengthening efforts of the government to contain the virus. In the absence of a vaccine to treat the victims of the pandemic, containment through precautionary measures and social distancing is the best available option. That would of course require a sea change in our social behaviour and adaptation to the emerging realities.There is a greater need in developing countries like Pakistan to hammer that message in the minds of the masses. In Pakistan, though the government and the media are on the same page and making efforts to create the required awareness among the people and impress upon them the desirability of social distancing, unfortunately the response has not been very encouraging as witnessed since the relaxation of the lockdown.I was in Lahore on last Friday two days before Eid and was flabbergasted to see people throwing caution to the winds and behaving as if nothing has happened. I saw eight to ten people sharing the same rickshaw and other available transport. I also found people within the city sitting together in the streets, shaking hands and even greeting the new arrivals with the traditional hug. That is indeed suicidal behavior which not only endangers their lives but also poses a grave threat to the lives of their friends and near and dear ones, besides aggravating the country-wide situation and scuttling the ability of the government to effectively deal with the pandemic. While the government and the media need to persist with their efforts to motivate and pursue the people to adopt the new way of life as dictated by the ravages of the pandemic, it is also important that the community leaders and the local influential people and the more educated ones in different localities also play a role in convincing and motivating the people to learn living with the pandemic by changing their traditional approaches to life and socialization.The scientists and medical experts around the globe are feverishly engaged in developing an appropriate vaccine to prevent covid-19 and there are also some encouraging news about the efficacy of their efforts, but the reality is that even if a vaccine is developed by October this year as claimed by Pfizer, things are not going to be the same in the post-pandemic period as it would leave an indelible mark on economic, political and social landscapes across the globe. It is worth mentioning that the CEO of Pfizer, while breaking this news, linked the hope to things going well and the stars aligning, which alludes to divine will.Surely nothing happens without divine will which is also a part of our faith. The people, apart from strictly following the social distancing guidelines, also need to pray to the Almighty to condone their sins, secure them from the ravages of the pandemic and crown the efforts of the government with success in tackling the pandemic. God save us all from the snowballing and unprecedented contagion."
Hasan Aftab Saeed,In praise of unlearning,2020-06-01,"Especially how it helps to understand the QuranUnlearning is an extremely underrated virtue. Often it is every bit as important as learning, if not more. None of us can help accumulating, in our formative years, huge stores of ideas and perceptions that are either incorrect (if they are matters of fact) or poorly founded (if they are opinions). This is unavoidable because hearsay is one of the ways we learn new things. It becomes worrisome only if these ideas and perceptions are not subjected to frequent checks.Especially when one of us takes up the study of any subject, unlearning (foolish) things about that subject is at least as important as learning (sound) bits about it. It’s rather easy to fall in love with one’s long-held opinions, and one asks for trouble if one resolves to resist altering one’s preconceived notions about the subject and decides to defend them with all the emotional force at one’s disposal. What results then is an unholy muddle of sound and foolish ideas. This intellectual lethargy/dishonesty comes at a huge price: the man becomes an embodiment of doublethink. There’s no wisdom where there’s no coherence.The Quran calls itself Al-Furqan (the Criterion that decides between the true and the false). It also declares that it is quite complete as far as its subject-matter is concerned. It is a Book, which implies that all the necessary context is right there in the text itself. It claims that it is revealed in unambiguous and clear Arabic, in a form most suitable for guidance. It says that its perfect transmission and purity is guaranteed by God Himself. Also, it’s the verbatim speech of God, as opposed to an inspired idea which the recipient of the revelation has expressed in his own words. None of these attributes of the Quran is shared by any other text or tradition; and so it makes no sense at all to give precedence over the Quran to any other account (when it comes to the subject of the Quran). If anything has the authority of settling theological issues among Muslims, it’s the Quran and nothing else. The moment one ‘understands’ the Quran ‘in the light of’ any other source (no matter what it may be), one is guilty of giving this authority to something other than the Quran. The results are very unfortunate, whether one does so consciously or unconsciously. That is why it’s the Hadees that must be understood in the light of the Quran, and not the other way around (which happens to be the popular approach with very unfortunate results).What follows is that we need teachers, not interpreters of the Quran. A teacher attempts to explain the meaning of a given verse by pointing out the context and the words employed and referring to other relevant verses of the Quran. An interpreter simply gives an interpretation, which cannot be found in the Quran but is based on some extra-Quranic narration. Often it blatantly contradicts other verses of the Quran.Reverence and respect for one’s religious teachers and what one learned at the knee of one’s mother is probably the biggest hurdle in the understanding of the Quran. One may sincerely believe that one is merely reading a given Quranic verse but what is going on in the mind at that time is often a replaying of some fairy tale heard in childhood. Ask anybody about the last two chapters of the Quran and he will most probably start by telling you that they were revealed to counter the magic spell that his adversaries were successfully able to cast on Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) – may God preserve us! Some of them would even give you an elaborate description of how as the eleven verses were recited eleven knots on some thread came unstuck and the evil spell was eliminated. The Quran says no such thing. In fact, quite the opposite: on many occasions it refutes this very claim from its doubters that Muhammad (PBUH) was under a magic spell. Examples could be multiplied but it would be a safe estimate that every fourth verse of the Quran is given a spin based on external sources.There’s another unfortunate tendency among humans that plays its part here: If one hears something for the first time, one is bound to reject it out of hand as something too peculiar, especially if it goes against what one has heard all one’s life. And yet, if one keeps hearing the same thing again and again, it stops sounding strange. This tendency (which is there in the best of us) makes it imperative that one keeps re-examining one’s thoughts about any subject to see if they make any sense or are just accepted because of being more familiar. More specifically, one must make it a habit of asking oneself this: Does an understanding of a Quranic verse appeal to me because it agrees with a familiar story I have heard many times (to the extent that I can’t imagine it to possibly be any different), or does it appeal to me because it is the best explanation of the words of the verse taken in their context?What follows is that we need teachers, not interpreters of the Quran. A teacher attempts to explain the meaning of a given verse by pointing out the context and the words employed and referring to other relevant verses of the Quran. An interpreter simply gives an interpretation, which cannot be found in the Quran but is based on some extra-Quranic narration. Often it blatantly contradicts other verses of the Quran.Like all valuable things understanding of the Quran only comes with sincerity and effort. But it cannot be achieved without unlearning preconceived notions about it. This often gets neglected and the resulting religious worldview, on account of being based on disparate and conflicting narratives, is of necessity and therefore something that fails to hang together."
Rabia Ahmed,Track and trace,2020-06-01,"Shouldn’t there be consent first?It seems the government is employing military technology to fight the corona virus. This technology is normally used to hunt down terrorists to discover what they’re up to by enabling the user to listen in to their telephone conversations, to note their movements to see who they are in touch with. This now is being used against the victims of corona, to ‘track and trace’ those infected with the virus, and by listening in to their phone conversations to discover whether those they are in communication with are also infected. This is of course being done by monitoring our phones.Is this a good idea?This strategy is not restricted to Pakistan alone. It is also being used by other countries for example Israel. Whether or not it is a good idea for those other countries to use it is not the remit of this column.The government of Pakistan has failed dismally to come up with a coherent strategy to deal with the pandemic – much less adhere to whatever strategy it does produce. Its calls for lockdown have been ignored by the public, and the so called ‘religious’ lobby has ignored restrictions on mosques and congregations and done exactly as it pleased. It has laid down and repealed instructions to educational institutions. It is now falling back upon threats against the government in Sindh for continuing the lockdown in that province, seeing that it must be seen to be doing something. This government and all previous governments are therefore hardly the most competent authority to trust with listening in to one’s private conversations – if one must entrust someone with such a thing.Pakistan has a massive population. Almost three quarters of this large number of people have access to mobile phones, and a quarter to the internet. This surveillance involving all these people has been started without prior consent of the people of Pakistan. Furthermore, organizations entrusted with this surveillance by the government do not always work in a salubrious manner.When taking the step to bring in this surveillance, have any safeguards been put into place to ensure that this surveillance does not extend to other things that are unrelated to ‘viral matters’? Are there any guidelines in place to bring this surveillance to an end once the virus dies down or will it continue to try and unearth matters that have nothing to do with the Coronavirus?Privacy international.org tells us that Pakistan is signatory to:The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights , which states that “no one shall be subject to arbitrary or unlawful interference with his privacy, family or correspondence.” The ICCPR also commits Pakistan to ensuring the protection of other rights that rely on the protection of privacy, such as freedom of expression and freedom of association.The Cairo Declaration on Human Rights In Islam affirms that: “a) Everyone shall have the right to live in security for himself, his religion, his dependents, his honor and his property. (b) Everyone shall have the right to privacy in the conduct of his private affairs, in his home, among his family, with regard to his property and his relationships. It is not permitted to spy on him, to place him under surveillance or to besmirch his good name. The State shall protect him from arbitrary interference. (c) A private residence is inviolable in all cases. It will not be entered without permission from its inhabitants or in any unlawful manner, nor shall it be demolished or confiscated and its dwellers evicted.”The Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan also establishes the right to privacy as a fundamental right. Article 14(1) of the Constitution confirms that “the dignity of man and, subject to law, the privacy of home, shall be inviolable.”Yet Pakistan’s constitution also includes a wide-ranging exception to the primacy of fundamental rights. The provisions of Article 8 do not apply to any law relating to the ‘proper discharge’ of the duties of the Armed Forces or the police.It is a cause for concern therefore to find that a strategy such as track and trace this is being employed, perhaps with the best intentions.By employing this method the way it has, the government of Pakistan has failed to protect its citizens and has acted in contravention to its own laws, and in contravention to the other agreements it is signatory to.Where, you wonder, is Covid-19 likely to stop and politics begin? When taking the step to bring in this surveillance, have any safeguards been put into place to ensure that this surveillance does not extend to other things that are unrelated to ‘viral matters’? Are there any guidelines in place to bring this surveillance to an end once the virus dies down or will it continue to try and unearth matters that have nothing to do with the Coronavirus?And why were the people of this country not on board at the time that this measure was taken, why was their permission not obtained?This is not a good idea at all."
Shah Nawaz Mohal,Silly little miseries,2020-06-01,"And how we try to transcend loneliness, apathy and existence through othersTo the rational and pragmatic, misery, suffering and agony are something to be avoided at all cost. The meaning of life, if we were the ideal creatures which we are not and never will be, would have boiled down to a simple list of do’s and don’ts. We would be avoiding pain, seeking pleasure, busy being merry, vying to get ahead, eating better, sleeping more, exercising a lot, being with people we love, sacking the people we abhor, putting up with people there is no running away from and waiting for life to perpetuate itself on and on until it gives up on us or we give up on it.If that was the world we lived in, folks, there won’t either be any space nor any place for our ‘Silly Little Miseries’. In a perfect, properly-ordered, divinely-ordained world, if we had one, we would all be zilch but mere happy, little princesses enjoying our happily ever afters where peace reigned supreme, tranquility flowed from everywhere and every nook and cranny reeked of happiness.Fortunately, and I use that word very carefully, it is not the case. We live our lives as imperfect beings, beings subject to whims, beings making choices, and then perishing because they made the choices that seemed right, turned out wrong, and left wondering what went wrong.Between mountains of certainty and abysses of doubt, some of us hang. Our craving to believe has a competitor in our inner demons. In our happiness’ very core, seeds of our sadness blossom and many of us are told to be happy as young kids, come what may. Some of us learn soon enough that sadness is our best pal.If we dig deeper, folks, if we really get ourselves a hammer and sickle, it dawns upon us that we live in an age where positivity is the mantra to live by. Our age is an aeon where all things rotten and bleak have been reduced to entertainment and sensations. Our sadness has a market, our grief has customers, our misery is manufactured, and even the tormented, dead souls of ours are up for sale for a price.Toiling under the delusion that happiness is the end all and be all of our existence, we mask our sadness in thousand garbs. We write or listen to sad,heart-wrenching poetry. We have agony-inducing songs on loop. We call our love of life and cry like helpless, hapless, tear-shedding babies because we don’t want to be seen as weak, emotional duffers in front of any one but that one special, beautiful creature.We watch fantasy, action, horror and epic films in the cinema amidst strangers looking for action, suspense, tricks, illusions and an escape from boredom-filled realities they are made to live in. But films like Requiem for a Dream, Magnolia, Synecdoche, New York, Atonement, Eternal Sunshine of a Spotless Mind, Mary and Max, P.S. I love you and thousands of others, we experience in the dark sanctuary of our rooms, in the arms of our beloved or away from them, imagining ourselves in the characters on our screens, dialogues that tear us apart yet keep us together and touch, lams in Urdu, we live in, on and for.Happiness is good. Sadness is Grand. Happiness is a moment. Sadness is an hour. Happiness is a Unicorn. Sadness is your first car and only car. Happiness is a celebrity crush; you can at best get an autograph from or a picture with. Sadness is your wife for four decades, sitting beside you, holding your hand on your deathbed as you are all set to give up the ghost.And in sadness our silly little miseries dwell, bloom and prosper. Silly because we know they are mere sensations we thrive on. Little because the universe is indifferent to all we go through. Miseries because they make our existence full, up to the brim with the absence of a presence and presence of an absence. We get presence, love it, and in our heart of hearts, we know the absence will come and we’ll lose what we cherish the most- eventually, perpetually and forever, we are the Sisyphus whose trials and travails never end.If we dig deeper, folks, if we really get ourselves a hammer and sickle, it dawns upon us that we live in an age where positivity is the mantra to live by. Our age is an aeon where all things rotten and bleak have been reduced to entertainment and sensations. Our sadness has a market, our grief has customers, our misery is manufactured, and even the tormented, dead souls of ours are up for sale for a price.I don’t want to burden you with academic, serious theories of how it all came into being, and how the society we live in aims to tame us, makes us inmates of a circle where every desire, every wish, even every rebellion, every revolt, every revolution has to remain within the boundaries defined, limitations imposed, and laws made.Our revolutions are nothing but sons killing their fathers to claim the throne and acting exactly the way their dead, beheaded fathers did.Our silly little miseries, then, are the products of dashed dreams, frustrated hopes, paths not taken, roads not traversed, friendships we lost, loved ones gone and aimless wanderings of our mind.Cheers to these silly little miseries, folks. Cheers to suffering which makes us create sculptures. Cheers to misery that makes us write poetry regretting life. Cheers to feeling the transitions of life and sticking to it. Cheers to all the battles lost. Cheers to all the pyrrhic victories. Cheers to Life. Cheers to all the silly little miseries.Don’t be miserable. However, just know that without our silly little miseries, we are not humans at all. Be human, know the worth, value and bear with all your heart the beautiful, cute, lovely silly little miseries."
Humayun Gauhar,"Knowledge, intellect & wisdom",2020-05-31,"Living in interesting timesI have always said it but it bears repetition: change is always happening in the world but rapid change takes place but rarely. Today we have rapid change and we are lucky to be alive to see it. Change of this magnitude redraws national boundaries and changes attitudes and society.America is on fire. The trigger was the killing of a black man called George Floyd by a policeman. He was choked to death. It was one death too many. Anger, frustration and rage spilled over. Right now, more than 30 cities are on fire and have become a battleground. The open season on blacks in America may have come to an end.At the other end of the world, China is finding its economy contracting for the first time in the last 40 years or so. It is at odds with India and has occupied part of the territory it claims. That territory is extremely pivotal for three countries─ China, India and Pakistan─ because from there, India can launch an attack on Pakistan’s Gilgit-Baltistan and thence cut off the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor under construction. The CPEC, as it is called, is vital for China and the development of Pakistan and therefore just as much of a thorn in India’s side. Two of India’s spy drones that intruded into Pakistan have already been shot down. News is that the Chinese army has given another thrashing to the Indian army. It seems that the fragmentation of British India which started in 1947 is proceeding apace. It is obvious that India is spoiling for war, which the world can ill afford. An India-Pakistan-China war is in danger of becoming nuclear. The world economy is contracting and we are facing a global depression for the first time since the Great Depression. It has already started. The world map would change after a world war as it did after the two previous world wars. To craft another global status quo requires a great deal of knowledge, intellect and, dare I say it, wisdom, which is in short supply.What has happened is not gone and what is going to happen has already happened. We just can’t see it, just as we can only now see the supernova of a star four billion light years away. That is in our future but it has already happened. So, humility, my dear friends, humility. It is not in the nature of human beings to have humility unless they are spiritually very developed, which few are. But at least give it a trySo fragile is the global equilibrium that an invisible virus has thrown it into a tailspin. We can’t see it, we don’t understand it and we can’t find a cure for it. We can’t even get to the roots of it with China and the USA variously blaming one another. When humanity is in such a state of confusion, the tendency is always to look for answers in the spiritual realm, apart from the scientific. I remember years ago, Dr Abdus Salam told me that they could never find the Grand Unified Theory, otherwise known as the Theory of Everything, unless the spiritual and the scientific were to join forces. I think it will happen one day. You see, if you accept that the Creator determines everything, even a virus, it might enhance your understanding. If you realize how infinitesimal we are that we can be killed by a lowly virus, then we may see sense. We have always seen the Earth open and more earth poured into it. The more earth is the dead body, the soul having gone off to its Maker. All we are left with is the mound of earth. While we are alive, we cannot even control our ego and keep exaggerating our ‘achievements’ and the ephemeral wealth we may have gathered. We keep saying this is mine, that is mine, without realizing that it is not anyone’s. Everything belongs to God and our reality is a mound of earth. Don’t we say dust to dust and ashes to ashes? To which I would add earth to earth and sod to sod.Doesn’t God refer in the Quran to “that clinging thing” referring to a foetus that becomes human? A human finally goes back to becoming “that clinging thing” again. All our ambitions, all our ego just disappear when we become that sod of earth.Now with the USA on fire and commentators on television wondering whether the State exists or not, do you still laugh at that Russian who said that America would fragment into five states? Truth to tell, there is not one USA but many, the most obvious being White America and Black America. Many of its states are economically self-sufficient, like California. In fact, it is the fifth largest economy in the world and it is only a province.This is difficult to comprehend for small minds that depend on their information on newspapers. Where is the Roman Empire? The Muslim Empire? The British Empire? Now Britain itself is in fear of fragmenting. This starts you thinking on what a natural nation state could be and the answer lies in the name, for a nation tells you everything. Britain is a collection of at least four nations, each with its own culture, cuisine, language, history, apparel and what have you. Perhaps one day, even these attributes might disappear and we get different methodologies of governing ourselves.One big change could be that perhaps in this global turmoil we might see the Muslims form an alliance and create a real ummah of believers in one God. But no so long as we have the effete, greedy and cruel leaders who have occupied the world. This global change anyway would be a very slow process and we will not see it during our lifetimes on Earth. Hopefully we will see it from the life in the Hereafter but then, who knows, we may not be interested in such things and may find them too mundane when we are occupied trying to understand the glory of God’s creation. Hopefully that is what it will be.So there is no point in taking fright from things we don’t understand and we never will. We cannot stop going back to our primitive past in which we killed just to survive.The onus of crafting the new status quo will not just be on humanity but also on natural forces. If the quantum scientists are to be believed, it has already been done, for they have found that the past, the present and the future all exist at the same time. If we stop thinking in terms of linear time as we do on Earth, then there is a chance we might understand this. What has happened is not gone and what is going to happen has already happened. We just can’t see it, just as we can only now see the supernova of a star four billion light years away. That is in our future but it has already happened. So, humility, my dear friends, humility. It is not in the nature of human beings to have humility unless they are spiritually very developed, which few are. But at least give it a try."
Web Desk,Pandemic in the Held Valley,2020-05-31,"Lockdown on top of a lockdownBy: Nisar Ahmad WaniSpring in Kashmir has its own and unique charm and elegance, because of its unique geographic position, and that’s what makes it stand apart from the rest of world. Spring comes breaking through the spell of a chilly, usually dull, winter and eventually infuses a new life into everything, particularly the plants and vegetation; besides the physical manifestations, it psychologically resonates the signs of hope and cheerfulness among children, the young and the old. With the beginning of this season, schools, colleges and universities are thrown open, students yet again get the chance to reunite for schooling and other co-curricular activities which generally stand adjourned during the winters. Trade and other activities get resumed more than normally, the usual hustle and bustle of markets start again, and principally it marks the commencement of the farmers’ season, while tourist’ throng into Kashmir from across the world to enjoy the scenic beauty of what is called paradise on earth.Of all the seasons spring is the most important season of Kashmir particularly. It not only brings happiness but throws open the doors for numerous opportunities. Since the beginning of this year, plenty of snow and rain was on the cards and it eventually happened, and therefore, this spring was supposedly going to prove to be a most effective season. One would have anticipated a considerable increase in the production level of grains, orchards and so on. Unfortunately, this year spring broke out with darkness looming not only over Kashmir but virtually the entire world. The virus that emerged from China has taken the whole world hostage, and Kashmir too. No one, including Kashmiris, were ready or prepared to face this pandemic, particularly in this peak business and most cherished season. The covid-19 literally brought a halt to everything, it seems as if the time and world around has frozen, and in the context of Kashmir it devastated the whole natural timetable that people would usually follow.The government must put restoration of high-speed internet on priority, so that students can attend their online classes without undue interruptions. All the saner voices around should keep the politics at bay as of now and focus on containing this pandemic. This virus must not be used as a political tool to suppress the people of KashmirIn the backdrop of the developed nations having a mortality rate which seemed too high to be even tackled, Kashmir automatically stood nowhere in the race of tackling this contagion. Already Kashmir was moving only at snail’s pace in pulling itself out of the earlier state-enforced lockdown, with no virtual connectivity which still is in place, though now in a varied form, that this contagion hit us to put us again on the backfoot. The state is in total mess, people are living in the shadows of darkness in each and every aspect, the difficulties in the daily lives of people are exponentially increasing. The Almighty is the last hope to bank on.The health department of the state was not ready for such a lethal contagion, firstly because there is dearth of knowledge in this field and secondly absence of modern technology with 2g internet service at place. Even without the pandemic, normally healthcare facilities are insufficient to meet the slight crises that emerge. We are lacking at well-equipped instruments, highly scientific labs, ventilators etc. the doctors in Kashmir had forewarned that there is not much in stock which wouls let them protect the people, there is even a shortage of basic equipments like masks, gloves, PPE kits, sanitizers and such like.The government didn’t act swiftly and wisely because when covid-19 was spreading all over the world, the government of the day was busy enforcing laws, organizing summits and eventually passed it off without paying much heed. Despite knowing how contagious this virus can be, yet it did not restore the high-speed internet at healthcare centres for doctors at least, for possibly if they would have understood via internet the lethality of this virus, they might have geared themselves up with early preparedness. In Kashmir, for any sort of negligence, doctors are not to be blamed, but the administration of the day only.Besides healthcare facilities our economy too was subjected to follow the same pressures. Kashmir is someway is agriculturally dependent, and due to coronavirus this sector has been the worst hi. We don’t have modern techniques, infrastructure, management, technologies and tools to store our goods with which our resources would be prevented from getting deteriorated and would save our economy from sliding even deeper.Kashmir, famous for its scenic beauty, attracts the tourist. Tourism, which is really the backbone of our economy, is also badly affected. Every year Kashmir’s tourists spend a lot of money on the gardens were flowers in abundance are blooming. But this year the flowers will bloom without witnessing tourists which also poses a great threat to our economy.Our education sector is already in ruins particularly after the centre robbed Kashmir of its semi-autonomy, which resulted in a lockdown in which students were worst hit, who couldn’t join schools for half a year.All in all, from education to economic sector, Kashmir is the worst hit of all, only some divine help is pumping in some fuel for Kashmir to run.If the government is really concerned about helping Kashmiris on humanitarian grounds, they must put restoration of high-speed internet on priority, so that students can attend their online classes without undue interruptions. Moreover, it will also help Kashmiris to keep trace of happenings around the world vis-à-vis the coronavirus, and that can also subsequently help doctors to take advantage from the work and findings of foreign scientists. All the saner voices around should keep the politics at bay as of now and focus on containing this pandemic. This virus must not be used as a political tool to suppress the people of Kashmir.The writer studies at Aligarh Muslim University, and can be reached at [email protected]"
Syed Kaswar Gardezi,The privileged untouchables,2020-05-31,"It can happen to anyone if ignoredIt is widely believed that money can’t buy everything. Wrong. In Pakistan, money can buy everyone and everything, the only difference is that of a price. Sometimes, in the words of Vito Corleone from the novel, The Godfather, an offer which cannot be refused is made. Even the most pious are made to succumb to the power of money. It bends the most upright men and corrupts the honest to the core. In fact it has a plaguing effect which spreads like a pandemic and governs the choices people make during the course of their lives.There can be different forms of corruption associated with money. Some may usurp the rights of others to unjustly gain which isn’t rightly theirs, the others might fall prey to money in the form of a bribe. For those who dominate the arena of money-generated power, they form the idea of being untouchable in their minds. This isn’t what they boast about verbally but rather their actions and their daring audacity to commit acts without fear of consequences reflects their mindset.One such classical example of a show of power was witnessed recently when the female family members flanked by armed private guards stormed into a house in one of the most elite residential areas and ransacked the entire house. By now the entire country has seen for themselves what these ladies did in there. Two women were physically assaulted, verbally abused, threatened with sexual assault and were left traumatized for the times to come. It is not a matter of whose house it was or wasn’t, what matters is that under no circumstances can someone barge into a house with armed private guards and threaten an individual’s security and liberty. A number of fundamental rights in our Constitution accord certain protections which were audaciously violated during the attack with no fear of any repercussions present.Not even a single statement of condemnation and a promise to take to task the perpetrators has been issued by the government. While judicial activism may not be condoned especially in the wake of the Coronavirus orders, however, in my opinion, a notice into this incident would be condonable. An armed assault has been made by a powerful family into the sanctity of an individual’s house with the government expressing its reluctance to proceed. Judicial oversight to ensure implementation of fundamental rights in this case would set an example for the so-called privileged untouchablesAs it turns out, owing to the ironical videos made by the attackers themselves and affirmed by the later video statement released by one of the main culprits, it was the family of the famous property tycoon, Malik Riaz Hussain, who undertook this armed assault on Uzma Khan and her sister. Guards provided by Malik Riaz for the purported security of his family were used to annihilate all forms of humanity by first barging into the house and then by threatening sexual assault. If such practices are to go unchecked, then the mighty can easily enter into the house of anyone of us and attack anybody at their will. The power that the Riaz family wields owing to their financial strength is evident from the fact that no government agency has stepped forward to take any action against the perpetrators. Even our free media, every ready to lambast politicians and their families, remains reluctant to even report the event let alone raise a voice, with the exception of a handful of actual independent media houses.Till the time hue and cry was raised by human rights advocates, a simple First Information Report, which the police is bound to register, was not even in sight. The police was simply too reluctant to proceed against Riaz’s family, with the only explanation being his influence and power. Apart from the inertia of the government against taking any action, what is more perturbing is the threat of using intelligence agencies being made in one of the videos as though the agencies serve at their will and pleasure. One of the ladies can be heard boasting that she can have the Inter-Services Intelligence pick up the two girls if she wants. While this self-proclaimed control over the pioneer intelligence agency of our country may not be true, but it does require action to be taken so as to dispel the notion of the powerful family’s connections and their ability to use them for personal scores.An example should be made and set for all those alike who consider themselves untouchables. It is very disturbing to see that the later video statement is an open confession of Amina Usman Malik’s involvement in the incident whereby she has not only acknowledged barging into the house, but has rather defended her actions, and yet no action against her has been taken so far. Despite lodging of a frail FIR, no arrests have been made and no formal investigation has been conducted. While the incident may have occurred in a private house, barging in there with dozens of armed assailants is nothing short of terrorism. Any citizen watching the video from the confines of his house would feel threatened; if this goes unchecked, then anyone could be next. Irrespective of the underlying reasons behind the attack, it was a simple case of terrorism whereby the family of Malik Riaz barged into a house and terrorized two female citizens of Pakistan who in the video appear to be visibly shaken as anybody naturally would be.Our country, on the other hand, rather than raising a voice against the crime which has been perpetrated, remains busy shaming the two women for their alleged illicit activities thereby reaffirming the decades-old illiteracy bound within our society. Blaming the victim is an age-old practice that is very much prevalent in our country. Not even a single statement of condemnation and a promise to take to task the perpetrators has been issued by the government. While judicial activism may not be condoned especially in the wake of the Coronavirus orders, however, in my opinion, a notice into this incident would be condonable. An armed assault has been made by a powerful family into the sanctity of an individual’s house with the government expressing its reluctance to proceed. Judicial oversight to ensure implementation of fundamental rights in this case would set an example for the so-called privileged untouchables. Malik Riaz Hussain, a man who boasts to keep judges, bureaucrats and government officials in his pocket also needs to be reminded and taught, with a stick, the following words:“Howsoever high you maybe, the law is above you”"
Arif Nizami,Flight PK 8303,2020-05-31,"And PIA’s perennial problemsMiseries do not come alone. As if the relentless attack of Covid-19 with all its dire human, social and economic consequences was not enough to sap the nation’s morale, the national airline’s Airbus A320 crashing into a residential area in Karachi, proved to be the proverbial last straw.The plane was carrying mostly families flying from Lahore to Karachi to celebrate Eid holidays with their near and dear ones. Except for two passengers who miraculously escaped, 97 perished in the tragedy.The mishap has raised a number of questions relating not only to the crash but also about lax safety standards of PIA (Pakistan International Airlines). A probe team mostly comprising of Pakistan Air Force (PAF) officers and headed by a squadron leader has started its work.Firstly, PALPA (Pakistan Airline Pilots’ Association) as well as the international body of pilots have objected to the composition of AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Board) having no airline pilot or technical member as its member.Secondly, critics contend that how can a board headed by a relatively junior officer, Air Commodore Usman Ghani, give a verdict that possibly questions the competence of his superior, Air marshal Arshad Malik who is serving as PIA’s CEO?A far more serious objection can be raised about the Board’s locus standi. True, air force pilots and commercial pilots belong to the same discipline. But this is where the similarity ends.PIA is a sad story-book of neglect corruption and cronyism. Infested with unions and associations sponsored and supported by political parties and successive governments in power, it is bereft of its past glory. With a fleet size of just 32, it has one of the highest ratios of employees per seat.Flying a commercial airliner is a different ball game from piloting and maintenance of an air force jet.Modern commercial airliners like the Airbus A320 are sophisticated machines with fail-safe safety features. Not that a modern combat jet is any less, but it is still a different animal altogether. But if something goes wrong, it’s only the pilot who goes down with it.Take the case of the type of plane that crashed. It is a fly by wire modern plane. Unlike automobiles its age (14 years in this case) does not mean it is an old plane, if it has gone through D-checks (the most comprehensive and demanding check for an airplane) and its parts replaced as per technical SOPs.According to PIA, the plane’s maintenance record show that, “it was technically sound. “It had logged 47, 100 flight hours since entering service in 2004 and had been in operation with the airline since 2014.The aircraft was powered by CFM56-5B-4 engines manufactured by CFM, a company jointly owned by GE (general electric USA) and a French manufacturer Safran France.The Airbus A320 is one of the most popular airliners in the world. As of mid-February this year 15, 522 A320 and its derivatives have been sold all over the world. It is considered a workhorse, mostly used for short and medium-haul flights. It has one of the lowest fatality rates of any airliner.In this context, the question that begs an answer is what went wrong with the doomed PK 8303? Obviously, one should wait for the probe results.According to the Aviation minister Ghulam Sarwar Khan the preliminary report will be made public on June 22. But one will have to wait longer for the Airbus manufacturer’s report that is expected in three months. Its probe team has already visited the crash site multiple times.Rarely are such reports open and shut. Usually it is a chain of unfortunate events happening in split seconds that lead to such tragedies.Instead of waiting for the report, all kinds of speculations are rife about the tragedy, some even at the highest level.The aviation minister has wondered aloud about why the pilot of the doomed plane Capt. Sajjad Gul failed to engage its landing gear. He disclosed that on the request of the AAIB a phycologist and a doctor have been co-opted to interview friends and family of the pilot.Whether these are deliberate leaks or factoids to shift the blame on the pilot thus absolving PIA of negligence, only the final report will tell. Nonetheless, the last few minutes of the ill-fated PK 8303, widely reported in the media, raise some important questions.Flying at an altitude of 10,000 feet instead of 7,000 when the ATC (air traffic control) issued its first warning to the pilot to lower the plane’s altitude is one problem.Despite being ‘hot and high’ (in technical parlance) the pilot responded that he was comfortable. When the plane was only 10 nautical miles away from the airport it was precariously at an altitude of 7,000 instead of 3,000 feet.According to reports now confirmed by the aviation minister, the plane landed sans its landing gear open with both of its enginesscraping the runway thrice. Perhaps the pilot was not aware that the landing gear was not engaged or he simply ignored the warning beeps.Neither did he ask for visual confirmation of the landing wheels not being down from the control tower as per the standard procedure. After the aborted landing, the A320 was a flying coffin. Both its engines’ vital parts severely damaged, it was unable to regain the required 3000 feet height, crashing into a building near the landing sight.This is not the first time that a pilot’s phycological state has been brought into question by aviation circles. A Boeing 777 belonging to the Malaysian Airlines disappeared in March 2014 after departing from Kuala Lampur.Its wreckage was never found to this date buried somewhere deep in the ocean. It is widely believed that the captain, Zahare Ahmed Shah, was heavily depressed and deliberately sent flight MH370 into the Indian Ocean.Whatever the outcome of the probe, the crash has raised questions about the safety standards of the national airline. PIA has a spotty safety record with 20 fatal crashes since its inception as Orient Airways at the time of independence.PIA is a sad story-book of neglect corruption and cronyism. Infested with unions and associations sponsored and supported by political parties and successive governments in power, it is bereft of its past glory. With a fleet size of just 32, it has one of the highest ratios of employees per seat.But owing to the vested interests supported by political parties it can neither be downsized nor privatized. Despite having a relatively small fleet its management is top heavy, drawing fat salaries and enjoying all kinds of perks and privileges.No wonder PIA is perennially in the red, bankrolled by the state. Perhaps the only solution is to bite the bullet and privatize it.Some have suggested shutting it down. This is also one solution, but easier said than done. Nevertheless, having a national airline is no longer a matter of national pride.Swissair privatized is now Swiss airline. Lufthansa, the second largest airline in Europe was state owned till 1994. Now it is a publicly traded company. Lufthansa has controlling stakes in Swiss Airline as well as Austrian Airlines.There are numerous such examples where airlines are either privatised or form strategic alliances with other airlines in order to run more efficiently and improve their profitability.The government will have to evolve an out of box solution to privatise PIA. Merely handing out periodic doles from the national exchequer will not resolve this perennial problem."
Arhum Tariq Butt,Anatomy of a crime,2020-05-30,"Let’s do a thought experiment.I am a man in an unhappy marriage. It comes to my attention that my wife is cheating on me. This probably isn’t an isolated incident because she married me for my father’s money and I know it very well. But this time I have concrete information. I know who the guy is and where he lives. He’s younger; better looking than I am and that angers me more. My wife owns a separate 1 Kanal bungalow that’s just a few kilometres away from our home. It’s obvious that she uses this house for drug fuelled parties and to meet with her many love affairs. I keep ignoring it until she starts to spend more and more time at her other house. I feel useless, duped and unattractive. So I decide to act.I know where she is and I know what she is doing. I plan to raid and catch her in the act. I have with me multiple cars, gunmen and kerosene. I plan to kill everyone and burn the place to the ground. When I enter the house I remember that my wife is my societal anchor. My escort to weddings, formal parties, social events and the mother of my child. She may be unfaithful but she’s still my wife and divorces are frowned upon. I have a reputation to protect. What will all my friends and family think if I hurt her bad enough that she leaves me? She’d a good girl, just misdirected. I can straighten her out by making an example out of this guy she was having the affair with. If I make enough of a ruckus she’ll probably be scared to death and never do such a thing again. So I humiliate and torture the boy.He thought he was better than me, that he can copulate with my wife right under my nose. I felt helpless. But now I have all the control. I ask my goons to harass and assault him. Throw kerosene on him wanting to light him on fire. Even make them walk on broken glass. Drunk with power; I feel like a Bollywood villain. I can do anything; It’s exhilarating! I am not worried though. He can take it. He knew what he was getting into. Serves him right for corrupting my wife. I hope this incident will set my wife straight and all such men will keep away from her now.It’s the next day; I don’t have any regrets. I actually feel proud of what I did. My wife is finally back. She can’t maintain eye contact with me but I bet things will be back to normal in no time. I check twitter: oh no…Outcomes of the Experiment:Firstly, as per the narration, this is a simple case of audacious criminality. Let’s not turn this political or a battle of the sexes or ideology. The legal remedy available for unfaithfulness is divorce by court. The whole concept of the Rule of Law is that no one can take the law in their own hands no matter what the circumstances are. ‘Zina’ here is just an allegation and hence not on the table. Even if a separate FIR is lodged for fornication and adultery it would require confessions from both the parties and if done so would implicate both the parties punishing them equally so I doubt that would happen. Legally speaking, crimes are judged on individual incidents and not on character or a larger story line. I write this to pare the incident to the bone, strip it of all the ‘brigades’ and the thought police.So what would have happened to me had I done all this? Well, at first I’d probably be behind bars even before the videos hit twitter. Such incidents in posh societies are as rare as hen’s teeth. Usually, internal society security seizes you and hands you over to the police themselves before the local forces have a chance to act. And I would definitely be charged with terror, torture, trespass, vandalism, possession of firearms and attempt to murder. To establish such a crime two legal ingredients are essential. Intention and the act itself; what we call ‘Actus Reus’ and ‘Mens rea’ in legal parlance. The fact that I planned all this beforehand; going in well prepared, establishes my intention to harm perfectly. It wasn’t an act of passion. I knew what I was doing and what the outcome would be. I merely thought I would get away with it.Even now, as all this has been busted wide open the perpetrator in question does not deny or apologise but justifies her act by claiming this was the only way she could protect her marriage. That said, it is safe to say that the FIR registered was technically and factually flawed and was missing many above mentioned aspects of the incident. I would be naive if I didn’t say the report was probably registered as a slap on the wrist expected to wither away and vanish with time; as is the norm.Finally, by changing gender-roles we come to know that such incidents are never about gender. They are about positions of power. Your darkest urges come to the surface only when you feel invincible. It is only when fear of consequences leave you that you possess the audacity of such acts. Rule of law exists to make sure that no one is invincible and that, at the back of your head there’s this ever-existing voice of sanity. Such cases are a test case for the executive, media as well as the judiciary."
Raoof Hasan,Take a pause and think,2020-05-30,"The time to befriend eternal nature is now“…and then I have nature and art and poetry, and if that is not enough, what is enough?”Vincent van GoghThe world appears consumed with the death and destruction that covid-19 has caused and the dread of bracing its possible aftermath. The World Health Organisation has warned that we may have to live with the contagion. Governments and institutions are simultaneously looking at possible ways not only to cope with the existent challenges, but also retrieve the battered economies which are on the verge of collapse, and help sustain the marginalised communities which are smitten with hunger and extinction. This is a task of mammoth proportions which shall only become more dogged with the passage of time.But, there are only a few of us who are actually contemplating the spectre of post-Corona life. In addition to focussing on the development of a vaccine, there is hardly any attention being paid to what adjustments will have to be made to stop the scourge from reappearing. This aspect becomes more gruesome in the face of humankind’s focus on material things to the exclusion of what may be so critically important for maintaining the order and balance in the universe and, consequently, our lives.As compared to when I was growing up, what I miss in today’s world is the absence of even a perfunctory engagement with the world of letters. The tablet having replaced the book, poets and artistes, too, have been consigned to the backstage. At our usual gatherings, no one seems interested in talking about the state of the arts in the society, what poets are writing about, or what painters are drawing. I hardly come across any recital sessions which were favourite occurrences in times not long ago when people would gather and read something, or listen to others doing the same which was always followed by a knowledgeable and vibrant discussion. Such engagements are now scorned at as being sheer wastage of time.We must remember that if the cruel process of destruction we have so insensitively initiated were to continue, there will be nothing left to care for, and nothing would be there to care for us. We would be forsaken by our surroundings. Shorn of the elements around us, we would be but hapless apparitions pounding away at nothingness which would be unresponsive to our pleadings.One can trace the decline of civilisations and societies in numerous causes, disengagement from creative pursuits and our surroundings being a couple of them. Unfortunately, this is something that is palpably visible in current times. In the process, we have been reduced to resting on our past laurels alone. There is no Manto, no Faiz, no Faraz, no Jalib, no Shakir Ali, and no Naqsh or Sadeqain. There is no Pak Tea House and endless cups doing the rounds among a vast galaxy of celebrities who were all masters in their respective arts. We now live in an environment of gross mediocrity that has dug its tentacles deep. Do we ever think why it has come to this? Why are we afflicted with such terrible dearth of creativity and why is there such venomous scorn for those few who are still engaged in these pursuits? It is like living in a vast, barren wilderness with not a speck sprouting.And, why is it also that we behave with such gross insensitivity with our surroundings, with nature that is so profusely manifested around us? Do we ever feel a twinge of loathing while cutting a tree, or mauling a row of flowers? Do we ever think of animals and birds as living beings who feel pain at being barbarically chopped away? Understandably, these are alien thoughts which do not occur to us while bludgeoning the rest of the world and the habitat to suit our crude and merciless predilections.There could be multiple reasons which brought the onset of covid-19, but we should not try to escape the blame. We must accept responsibility for ravaging the habitat and all other living organisms without as much as a passing thought. We take spilling others’ blood as an inherent right. It is a different matter when it comes to our own blood, or that of the ones we hold dear. Then it is a different rationale that we take recourse to– a rationale that works by creating a distinction between right and wrong. Well, those carrying a chalice of venom for others to drink from cannot fathom the undesirability of seeking a distinctive paradigm when it comes to dealing with their own pain. We have different masters for different kind of tasks. It doesn’t work like that. Blood would be blood no matter whose it is that is spilled.It was Rembrandt who said, “Choose only one master– nature”. That is critical in recognising that we, and all that is around us, are one among nature. If we kill or damage it in any way, it’ll impact us as much as it will impact other organisms. We cannot escape the effects of cruelty that we inflict upon others.So, fighting covid-19 and dreaming for the vaccine to arrive early is all fine in our bid to continue partaking of the beauty and bounties of nature. But, we should also protect these and let others share them with us. Indulging in acts to decimate the lives of other living organisms is tantamount to diminishing our chances of survival in the future.The same goes for the absence of creative pursuits which help propel us into a higher dimension of living and introducing us to a newer purpose of life. Somehow, and quite inexplicably, we have systematically deprived ourselves of that finer element which would have helped us understand things in the larger perspective and come up with palliatives which would administer a healing touch not available in the medicinal genre.Corona may be the scourge of the whole world, but we also crossed a few lines which we should not have. Change is rooted in a mind-set which makes us think and act in certain ways. That is where we have a major issue, as we have been moulded through years of indoctrination focussed on our purported invincibility and the righteousness of all things that we do. In reality, we are just as flawed as the rest of the world. We should accept this so that a certain margin is left to ponder the way we have lived against how we should have lived.Life is all about getting out of the block that we may be stuck in and caring for others like we do for our loved ones. It is not about monopolising the space that we may have, but manifesting benevolence to share it with others. At the end of the day, we are all in it together, so we should make a collective effort to cherish and nurture the beauty and bounties that nature has lavishly showered upon us.We must remember that if the cruel process of destruction we have so insensitively initiated were to continue, there will be nothing left to care for, and nothing would be there to care for us. We would be forsaken by our surroundings. Shorn of the elements around us, we would be but hapless apparitions pounding away at nothingness which would be unresponsive to our pleadings.Remember that, in the words of Ralph Waldo Emerson, “Nature always wears the colours of the spirit”. Nature is our friend, an eternal friend. That time to actually accept it as one and handle it delicately is now. Tomorrow may be too late."
Hammad Gilani,Food security and sustainability during the pandemic,2020-05-30,"The virus provides an opportunity. But will we Take it?Amid rising deaths from the coronavirus worldwide, the World Food Programme (WFP) has warned that the world could face a “global hunger pandemic” as the number of people suffering from malnutrition could double this year. According to its report, at the end of 2019, approximately 130 million people globally were facing “severe hunger”. Currently, most countries around the world are facing lockdown and the number has risen to 265 million. Even before the coronavirus pandemic, more than two billion people were malnourished. The infant mortality rate was said to be unacceptably high. Against this background, there was an emphasis on global research efforts for controlling the escalating level food insecurity.After World War II, 2020 could be considered the worst for human crisis, say international think tanks. In addition to war-torn, ecologically and economically disadvantaged countries, there are many other poor and semi-mediocre countries that will be immensely affected by the spread of the coronavirus. The problem will be exacerbated by various economic pressures. In such countries, the graph of remittances will also fall. The charity Oxfam has warned that the economic effects of the coronavirus could add up to half a billion people worldwide slipping into poverty. Citing research from the Australian National University and King’s College London, Oxfam said it would be the first time in 30 years that global poverty has increased. According to the report, due to the unwanted conditions created by the novel virus, the economic crisis will be more severe than the medical crisis and global poverty will increase significantly. The United Nations’ sustainable development goals include the eradication of hunger. To feed 10 billion persons in 2050, we need to get the trade-offs right between sustainability, food security, and food safety, and make better use of food already produced.Even under normal circumstances, Pakistan has failed to fight inflation and poverty. The biggest challenge is the economic situation of the average Pakistani which does not allow him to be limited to the extent that saves him from the virusThe hierarchy of strategies for reducing food losses and waste are in descending order source reduction, reusing or reprocessing surplus foods, recycle food as feed for animals, recover the energy as biofuels, nutrients as compost, or raw materials for industry, while as last resorts one may consider recovering the energy by incineration or dumping it as garbage in landfills. Food safety and security are two complementing elements of our sustainable future. Hence, we need novel solutions for our future food security and sustainability without compromising food safety to achieve the United Nations sustainable development goals (SDG) including the eradication of hunger and poverty, clean water, sustainable land use, responsible production and consumption, mitigating climate change, and sustainable life on land and water. The coronavirus has brought many bitter truths together in countries like Pakistan. There are less equipped hospitals, fewer resources, less capacity, impractical policy approach, and lack of awareness in a country. In the presence of the aforementioned huge challenges, if we deal with this epidemic successfully, it will not be considered less than a miracle. At the international level, experts believe that the coronavirus will change the world. By several reports of international organizations, it is observed that there exists a risk of intense waves of hunger and poverty ranging from highly developed countries to underdeveloped countries. Economic mismanagement is at the root of all the world’s problems. From psychological problems to the decline of social values, the root of the problem is economic misery. About 60 million people in Pakistan are living below the poverty line. The poor are growing, the resources are shrinking. From the coronavirus, those bitter realities have come to the fore again, which are somehow covered up. The problem is everyone has to stay home if they want to avoid the virus. Those whose pockets are full are filling their homes with groceries. People who are free from stomach worries are showing their new hobbies on social media and encouraging people to stay at home. Some people share a list of books and movies on social media and say that they stay away from the virus at home. Read the best books in the world and watch super hit movies.A few realists-are adding romantic colours to such suggestions. They say to give the family time. Avoid doing things that you have never been able to do with your family because of your busy schedule, and take advantage of the opportunity to do so. However, the poorest section of Pakistan is deprived of the luxury of such thinking. Along with corona, poverty is spreading in front of them. Everything will stop. The voices are also holding their breath. If they don’t go to work, will the family eat? And if they go out, they and their families may be at risk of contracting the virus. What advice do you give to these poor people? the middle class of Pakistan will try to follow somehow The awareness campaign for hygiene and precautionary measures that is going on at the moment, , but the millions of people who barely eat two meals a day, who live in dirty houses and rubbish bins; how will they take care of all this hygiene? Crying poses a serious threat to the world economy.Pakistan’s economic wrestling is still hesitant in the middle of the whirlpool under normal circumstances. So far the world has very few solutions to fight the coronavirus. One of the most effective solutions is to minimize social interactions. In Pakistan too, efforts are being made to prepare people for this. But the question bothering everyone at the moment is whether Pakistan’s economic situation is capable of bearing the burden of any kind of partial or complete lockdown.Under no circumstances can the answer be yes. Even under normal circumstances, Pakistan has failed to fight inflation and poverty. The biggest challenge is the economic situation of the average Pakistani which does not allow him to be limited to the extent that saves him from the virus.There is an urgent need to invest in research infrastructure for reliable data on population health, nutrition, agricultural practices, climate change, ecosystems, sustainability, and human behaviour. The government must increase funding for agricultural and nutrition research. Although institutes on nutrition and hunger already exist, increased international cooperation is needed to close the knowledge gap. It also includes social science issues, such as how to change the behavior of consumers and farmers and how to introduce previously neglected agricultural crops.The implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) also requires coordinated consideration of research findings. The coronavirus has given us an opportunity to think about how to balance nutrition and environmental goals in Pakistan, from analysis to how to motivate consumers to eat healthy and sustainable food."
Dr Asim Farooq,A glimpse of this century and our ignorance,2020-05-30,"The covid-19 pandemic is a warning to the workedSome tragedies and incidents change the interests of man. History shows that a few incidents in the last century changed the priorities of nations and policymakers. For instance, World War One cautioned humanity that the world could not afford absolute anarchy and we had to go for such institutions which discourage time and again misadventures like the world witnessed in World War One. The idea of the League of Nations was floated and global debates on it were started. It did not get permanent shape but the idea remained alive for decades.As World War Two broke out and the world again confronted massive aggression and human losses, eventually, that idea of the League of Nations transformed into the United Nations. For the first time, a legitimate international institution came into being with the endorsement and consent of the world’s nations. Before that, the priorities and interests of people were changed, but these two wars awoke the world’s nations but after paying a big price. As the race of nuclear weapons commenced World War Two, again statesmen and policymakers cautioned about it. That worry of nations concluded in the form of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. If that had not happened, the majority of states would now have nuclear weapons.So it is now the best time for all to concede that humanity is tired of all blunders that it has committed. People at large will accept that terrorism, poverty, gender inequality and pandemics are not issues of any particular nation. Humanity should be first, then imperialist, hostile and blind initiativesSo some things and actions are required before they happen but the priorities of people keep them unaware of possible mishaps ahead. The forms of negative ambitions changed if we deeply think about it in the international scenario; like the last century witnessed the end of many colonial occupations but nobody can deny now that we still confront the exploitation of human resources and raw materials in the shape of globalization. The shape of war too is changing from conventional war to non-conventional, and from kinetic military warfare to proxies. These all owe to the belief that man is still not learning from the past, but merely changing the style of actions.Some states’ heads, for the sake of limited political motives ignore repercussions which the whole humanity would bear for their actions. You have multiple examples like the climate change challenge and its combating. Some people keep their limited motives ahead of the broad interests of humanity. Some rulers come up with slogans like “America First” and ignore the effects of their actions under the cover of that slogan.In the near past of a decade or two, the Kyoto Protocol and Paris Climate Agreement faced the same challenges. US President Donald Trump, who is currently leading a major economy and nation, forgot the importance of the Paris Climate Agreement which his predecessor Barak Obama signed. These all are basically showing the limited vision of these world leaders and ignorance of the dangers which humanity at large will bear.Hence it seems that continuity of blunders is still here, one after the other, on the part of human beings but in the end, all have to bear the consequences. Rather than put all these things in order, still, their ways of accomplishing limited goals are to continue to act as before in other shapes and manifestations.So this is now a big question before statesmen, common people, media and civil society that whether these all are ready to learn anything from history or they can only plan for a limited circle in a limited time, ignoring the greater number, over the long term. Covid-19 is a continuity of the challenges man has been confronting for a long time. It is a caution for the correction of actions.The highly infectious viral disease has spread worldwide since its appearance in December 2019, causing an unprecedented pandemic. The number of confirmed cases worldwide continues to grow at a rapid rate, but, currently, there are no specific drugs or vaccines available to control the symptoms or the spread of this disease, leaving as an effective option only social distancing.The outbreak has forced nations under lockdowns, restricting or putting a halt on transportation, as well as both agricultural and industrial activities across the globe. These measures are taken to contain the pandemic and save lives.Besides the general picture of challenges and pandemic, Pakistan too is unaware of history. It is a country with limited resources, where only 4.5 percent of the total budget is allocated for health. Since the last 73 years, the people are still striving and fighting for Bread, Clothing and Shelter (Roti, Kapra and Makan). The country’s decision-makers, and those who control the power, need to understand that until now their policies are worthless and have not worked; the people are still fighting for basic needs such as health, quality education, job opportunities and so on.Now starting from here, are we ready for any positive change? Are world wars, disasters, pandemics and crises yet not enough? If not now, a day will come when all nations will reach a deal that would be broad and acceptable for all, but for how long humanity and nations are stick to their ambitions? That much time will confront humanity with more and more massive losses.So it is now the best time for all to concede that humanity is tired of all blunders that it has committed. People at large will accept that terrorism, poverty, gender inequality and pandemics are not issues of any particular nation. Humanity should be first, then imperialist, hostile and blind initiatives. The world’s nations should develop a consensus that the world is not our global village now, but it is our genuine and true village, where we all have the same macro-interests against micro-goals. Allthese challenges demand from all that enough is enough, let all spend on health, education and quality of life rather than wars and misadventures. No nation is first ahead of others, and if an issue struck the whole globe, no one’s borders would save them.Pakistan’s history too asks from all policymakers and its ruling elite that the nation should have justice in the system and distribution of resources. After a decade or two, at least the same vulnerability of health should not be a reason for such pandemic where hospitals are poor in the numbers of ventilators and other needs. It is too possible that challenges change its face in future but nations should be prepared rather than again ignoring this casually."
Dr Rajkumar Singh,Prospects of globalisation and Covid-19,2020-05-30,"Covid-19 has derailed many things, one being the globalization projectThe outbreak of the new coronavirus, covid-19, that began in Wuhan, China, has had a far-reaching historically significant global change. More than 200 countries have confirmed cases of the virus, with the wide nature of the transmission mechanism remaining unclear. Pandemics are not just passing tragedies of sickness and death. The omnipresence of such mass-scale threats, and the uncertainty and fear that accompany them, lead to new behaviour and beliefs. People become both more suspicious and more credulous. Above all, they become less willing to engage with anything that seems foreign or strange.Nobody knows how long the covid-19 epidemic will last. If it does not become less contagious with the arrival of summer in the northern hemisphere, nervous populations around the world may have to wait until a vaccine is developed and rolled out. Another major variable is the effectiveness of public-health authorities, which are significantly less competent in many countries than in China. What is missing from globalisation is political globalisation and human globalisation. We need to recognise that the world is as strong as its weakest links. We have countries turning their backs on the United Nations. This is not fit for the 21st century. Global agencies are doing their best, but their shareholders, the governments, are not reforming and empowering them. That is the challenge. The current pandemic has made people aware of this. Hopefully, we can use this as an opportunity to learn, so that we do not have another pandemic and also are better able to manage other systemic risks such as climate change.History offers intriguing precedents for what might come next. Consider the famous financial crisis following the “tulip mania” in the Netherlands between 1635 and 1637. This episode is particularly well known because its lessons were popularized by the Scottish journalist Charles Mackay in his 1841 book, Memoirs of Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds. To Mackay, the tulip crisis seemed to prefigure the speculative surges of capital into railroads and other industrial developments in North and South America during his own time. Throughout the book, he milks the episode for all its humour, recounting stories of ignorant sailors literally swallowing a fortune by mistaking tulip bulbs for onions. The tulip mania coincided with the exceptionally high mortality of the plague, which was spread by the armies fighting the Thirty Years’ War. The plague hit the Netherlands in 1635, and reached its peak in the city of Haarlem between August and November 1636, which is precisely when the tulip mania took off.We are not entering de-globalisation, but only entering globalisation of a different nature. We are more likely to see less of manufacturing trade, but more services trade. Asian countries recognise that they need the benefits of globalisation. Of course, we also need policies to manage the risks of globalisation. It also requires investment in improving hygiene and sanitation, upgrading of slums and informal settlements, investing in health research, investment in regulation and enforcementLike today, early modern Europe’s plague epidemics spawned vast conspiracy theories. The less obvious the origin of the disease, the more likely it was to be attributed to some malign influence. Stories circulated about sinister hooded figures going door to door “anointing” surfaces with contagious substances. Outsiders– foreign merchants and soldiers– as well as the marginalized poor were fingered as the culprits. Again, a nineteenth-century source offers powerful lessons for today. In Alessandro Manzoni’s 1827 novel, The Betrothed, the plot reaches its high point during the plague outbreak in Milan in the 1630s, which was considered a scourge introduced by foreigners, not least the foreign Spanish Habsburg monarchy that ruled Milan. The novel became a potent catalyst for Italian nationalism during the Risorgimento.Likewise, the current pandemic, covid-19, has resulted in factory closures and production suspensions and disrupting global supply chains. Producers are taking steps to reduce their exposure to long-distance vulnerabilities. So far, at least, financial commentators have focused on cost calculations for particular sectors: automakers worried about shortages of parts; textile makers deprived of fabric; luxury-goods retailers starved of customers; and the tourism sector, where cruise ships, in particular, have become hotbeds of contagion. But there has been relatively little reflection on what the new climate of uncertainty means for the global economy more generally. In thinking through the long-term consequences of the covid-19 crisis, individuals, companies, and perhaps even governments will try to shield themselves through complex contingent contracts. It is easy to imagine new financial products being structured to pay out to automobile producers in the event that the virus reaches a certain level of lethality. The demand for novel contracts may even fuel new bubbles, as the money-making possibilities multiply. already playing into today’s nationalist narratives. To some Americans, the Chinese origins of the disease will simply reaffirm the belief that China poses a danger to the world and cannot be trusted to behave responsibly. At the same time, many Chinese will likely see some US measures to combat the virus as being racially motivated and intended to block China’s rise. Conspiracy theories about the US Central Intelligence Agency creating the virus are already circulating. In a world flooded with disinformation, covid-19 promises to bring even more.As we know globalisation is very good as it lifts people out of poverty, creates opportunities, spreads vaccines and medicines, jobs and finance. That is one of the reasons India, like many other developing countries, has seen rapid progress. It is sharing of ideas, technologies, skills, good and services, and finance with other countries which defines the beneficial part of globalisation. But it also very dangerous and can be very ugly. I always think globalisation as the good, the bad and the ugly. In order to harvest the benefits, one has to manage the risks. But what we are seeing is that people are not managing the risks, and this is making globalisation dangerous. Dangers like pandemics are the spillovers of globalisation. Integration of China with the world economy, 1.4 billion tourists and business travellers around the world every year are not only spreading good things, but also spreading bad things.Take the case of pandemics like that of the covid-19. The rapid growth of cities like Mumbai and Wuhan, which have airports, means that anything that happens in these cities can go across the world in just a few days. And this is what we are seeing in this pandemic. This spread is not only in pandemics, we saw this spread in the financial crisis in 2008 too, cyber viruses which are spread around the world are another example, and there are also existential unintended consequences of rapid growth coming from globalisation, like climate change. There is no wall high enough even for mighty countries like India, China and the USA to keep out the great threats in the future. These are the threats such as climate change, pandemics and financial crises. These high walls keep out ideas, technologies, vaccines and finance.If we are talking about Asia, my sense is that we would continue to see a rapid growth of Asian economies like India, China and Indonesia. They will also recover when the pandemic is over. We will see growth in other places too, but at a slower pace. We are not entering de-globalisation, but only entering globalisation of a different nature. We are more likely to see less of manufacturing trade, but more services trade. Asian countries recognise that they need the benefits of globalisation. Of course, we also need policies to manage the risks of globalisation. It also requires investment in improving hygiene and sanitation, upgrading of slums and informal settlements, investing in health research, investment in regulation and enforcement."
M A Niazi,Brave New World,2020-05-28,"From the workplace to leisure, everything will changeThat the world will be different after the covid-19 pandemic is now something of a truism, though Prime Minister Imran Khan was not being defeatist when he said the disease was here to stay, but merely reflecting the latest received wisdom to come from the World Health Organization. The implications of that alone have perhaps not yet sunk in; but it means that the so-called emergency measures that are recommended, and which it was implied could be abandoned when the pandemic was over, will now have to be internalized, and made a permanent feature. This has major implications for life as it is lived.The awkwardness to be seen in almost every home this Eid, as normally sure relatives fumbled about how to greet one another, and it became a problem for someone trying to practice social distancing to fend off a relative who stuck to the hoary tradition of the triple embrace. That awkwardness, that new social uncertainty, will merely add to the difficulties thrown up by urbanization. However, there are two ways in which being less expressive socially will change things. Work will change, moving more to the home, as will schooling.The first issue that will arise will be that of connectivity. There is already sufficient connectivity for working or schooling at home to be a possibility, and for breakdowns to be a problem to be solved rather than some sort of insurmountable barrier. However, the Internet has moved from being a private convenience to a public good. It is not merely used to let a teenager play his favourite online game, but to let him get an education. Parents have thus developed an interest in connectivity. If they also work from home, they have an additional interest.Working from home means that supervision becomes a problem. There is a sudden curtailing of the sort of interaction that both the supervisor and the supervised are used to, and until substitutes are developed, it becomes difficult to maintain the degree of supervision. There will now be a greater emphasis on output, as the concept of office discipline goes out the window. The worker may be as noisy or untidy as he or she likes; the supervisor will not care so long as he (or she) gets the job done on time. If supervision becomes a problem, then electing supervisors becomes all that much more a problem. The work has changed, the supervision has changed, what will become of the traditional organization?This pandemic will leave effects. One is not supposed to eat watermelon and drink water because it could cause cholera. This is not a quaint custom, but a remnant of the precautions propagated during the cholera epidemics around World I. Just so, a century from now, some ‘quaint’ survival will remind our descendants of this pandemic.While it might not be possible to predict anything, it should be noted that senior managers comprise the age group that is most at risk. So you will have a lot of frightened old men in decision-making positions. It should also be noted that a lot of positions might be under threat, of those who are not digitally as adept as they should be. There is a bottleneck here too, as the people making decisions about technical skills are themselves not as well adapted. When they themselves were recruited, digital skills, while no disadvantage, were not a prerequisite. That has changed.Another change that has to take place is in the educational system. Not only must it shift online, but it must prepare students for the workplace in which they must earn a living. They have been designed to prepare them for offices and factories, not the fields, where so many of our people go, where so few Westerners go. The school of tomorrow must prepare the pupil for working from home. At the same time, he must also be ready for the factory, because goods will still have to be produced, and not all that much can be made at home. Even here, there will be some shifting, as workers start imagining their place of residence as a place of work.While all these changes take place, commercial property can be expected to be something of a drug on the market. With office workers staying home, and using their residential space as work space, they will not need an office, which means their organization will not need to own or rent space for them. Not only will it become more difficult to rent or sell space in any new office buildings being built, but existing office buildings might see an exodus. Rented space may simply be abandoned, but owned buildings may make the organizations into the real estate business, as they try and find if remodeling for some other purpose, like residential use, works.Business travel will go down, with consequences for both the travel and accommodation industries, with the latter providing a knock-on negative effect for the real estate business. One of the checks on travel will be the inoculation requirement for international travel, once a vaccine is developed. Apart from getting the vaccine, there will be the inconvenience of keeping, in addition to one’s passport, the booklet certifying that the vaccine had been administered. The anti-covid-19 vaccine will be required for entry to certain countries. No prizes for guessing that this will help constitute a form of discrimination against Third-World citizens.However, it is not just the school and workplace, but whenever anyone leaves the home. For example, entertainment will change. Sports events, concerts, cinemas, theatres, will all be changed forever, even if they do resume or re-open. One can expect more of the sort of outcry at British PM’s Adviser Dominic Cummings, who faced calls for resignation because he travelled to visit his parents in Durham. An apparently filial gesture is being condemned for violating social distancing. One implication is that illicit liaisons will be rendered that much more awkward, while courtship and marriage, already hard enough, will become even more so.The Western idea of having fun, which just means some way of getting blind drunk without drinking alone, will have to be abandoned. The idea of a crowded, smoke-filled bar with people cavorting to loud music is enough to give a public health official a heart attack, even without factoring in the physical contact involved in most dance-floor encounters. There will be a reinforcement of the taboos about using needles and razors. In fact, all the taboos surrounding AIDS will be reinforced, because this too is a viral disease with parallels in both transmission and treatment.There should be a campaign against the virus to be expected, much as the anti-malaria and anti-smallpox campaigns of yore, followed by the anti-dengue and anti-polio campaigns of more recent times. It is possible that the virus might be wiped out, but the reality is that this virus has managed to cross over from the animal it originally infected to humans.However, it should not be presumed to be the last such pandemic, the last virus that will attempt a crossover. One of the factors emerging has been the natural fear of death, and how Mankind has been taught that Man does not yet control Nature.This pandemic will leave effects. One is not supposed to eat watermelon and drink water because it could cause cholera. This is not a quaint custom, but a remnant of the precautions propagated during the cholera epidemics around World I. Just so, a century from now, some ‘quaint’ survival will remind our descendants of this pandemic."
Web Desk,"La La Land: Elite capture, regulatory capture and institutional capture",2020-05-28,"The sugar crisis showed us the flaws in the systemBy: Sheraz ZakaPakistan is a country which has become an elitist state where the interests of the elite class are considered to be of paramount significance. The entire elite has fettered the country in the shackles of its vested interests. The recent sugar crisis is an example which clearly demonstrates why people with commercial corporate interests enter the field of politics, not to serve the nation but to accumulate assets and increase their wealth manifold.In this pursuit, irrespective of their party affiliation, they all are in the same boat to look after their vested interests at the expense of the public welfare. The sugar inquiry commission was constituted by the federal government to inquire into the increase in the sugar prices. Recently the inquire commission completed its task and submitted its report to the sugA Minister and immediately the report has been made public. The report is an eye-opener and lifted the veil on the concerted practices of the sugar cartel. It was further disclosed that Rs 29 billion subsidy of the taxpayer’s money was given to the sugar mill owners in the past five years. Under a law giving subsidy is not an infringement of law; however the sugar mill owners manipulated their accounting records and misrepresented to the sugar advisory board as well as the economic coordination committee of the Cabinet that the sugar stock was in excess and therefore the mill owners must be permitted to export. The export led to the increase in the sugar price in the domestic market which led to the unjust enrichment of the sugar barons. The price spike was also the result of the connivance of the mill owners and the brokers, which ultimately led to dramatic increase in their profitability.It seems that the elite class of our country knows the system very well. It knows how to grind it to a halt to protect its vested interest. This is called elite capture; whereas the regulatory authorities engaged in malpractices to serve the elite interest are under a regulatory capture; and last but not least institutions such as judiciary issuing stay orders and giving relief to lawyers on the basis of their face value or connections or the executive making policy to cater to the vested interest of elite shows that the entire country is under institutional capture.Another important fact which has been disclosed by the inquiry commission report is that the mill owners are involved in under-invoicing, overstatement of cost of production and double book-keeping. and such malpractices constituted corporate fraud.These sugar barons overstate the cost of production and understate their profits to save taxes and thus they must be held accountable for tax evasion under the Income Tax Ordinance 2001. Moreover the chartered accountants who audited their accounts over the past so many years must also be taken to the task for false reporting. It reminds us of the corporate scandal of Enron which was engaged in false reporting and by manipulating its accounting records and financial statements the management was overstating its profit to keep the value of stocks high. Ultimately it was all exposed and the entire top management of Enron had to face prosecution.Similar action must be taken against this sugar cartel, but unfortunately our state agencies and instrumentalities lack the capacity to prosecute these people of high influence. The track record of the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) is not at all impressive when it comes to the conviction of such influentials and such is that of the Federal Board of Revenue (FBR) which lets people alleged to have been involved in tax evasion, go scot free.In Pakistan, it is the Competition Commission of Pakistan, under the Competition Act 2010, which was supposed to clamp down upon the anti-competitive activities which include cartelization, hoarding practices, abuse of dominant position to eradicate competition from the relevant market. Unfortunately the Competition Commission has not been as effective hitherto. It is primarily due to the fact that whenever the Competition Commission took action against the cartels or businesses involved in any kind of anti-competitive activity, such business owners would pay hefty fees to their lawyers who on account of their face value or connections would obtain stay order from the honorable Lahore High Court against the proceedings/order of the Competition Commission. At present there are a number of cases in LHC filed by the undertakings belonging to different sectors, including the sugar industry, telecommunications and others, which have obtained stay orders for the past ten years against the Competition Commission and yet the cases are still pending and have not been decided.As a result the performance of the Competition Commission has been severely affected and also been compromised. Had these cases been decided on time by the LHC, the performance of the Competition Commission would have been improved manifold. It is very tragic that the snail-paced judicial system favours the culprits, who manage to get stay orders through their lawyers.As law students, in books of the Civil Procedure Code lawyers had been studying, it is taught that stay orders are granted if the balance of convenience lies in favour of the aggrieved party, but actually in practice we see in courts that stay orders are being granted and continued for many years on the basis of the face value of a lawyer.It seems that the elite class of our country knows the system very well. It knows how to grind it to a halt to protect its vested interest. This is called elite capture; whereas the regulatory authorities engaged in malpractices to serve the elite interest are under a regulatory capture; and last but not least institutions such as judiciary issuing stay orders and giving relief to lawyers on the basis of their face value or connections or the executive making policy to cater to the vested interest of elite shows that the entire country is under institutional capture. Albeit, we are living in La La Land!The writer can be contacted at [email protected]"
Sultan M Hali,Can India and Pakistan team up to ward off locust attack?,2020-05-28,"Both Pakistan and India are currently under a locust attack. Various means are being adopted to combat the swarms of locusts, which are threatening to destroy crops. The attack in 2020, the worst plague of locusts in 70 years, has already affected East Africa; millions of locusts have now invaded Middle East countries like Yemen, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar and Saudi Arabia from the Horn of Africa. People report biblical scenes as giant swarms of locusts are so thick, they darken the sky. The swarm is currently ravaging East Africa. In recent weeks, the insects spread to South Sudan, Uganda and Tanzania, after having devastated crops throughout Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia.The biblical plague has also engulfed Pakistan, India and is approaching the border to China, raising alarm bells. Rarely since the Exodus of Hebrew slaves from Egypt has the African continent seen locusts swarming throughout Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, South Sudan and Uganda. Pakistan has confirmed that archrival India is proposing a trilateral response in partnership with Iran to fight a crop-killing desert locust invasion, which threatens food security for millions of people across the region. India’s rare offer of cooperation comes amid escalating military tensions with Pakistan over the disputed Kashmir region, worsening historically strained relations between the nuclear-armed neighbours. Pakistan’s Foreign Office spokesperson has reiterated that a well-coordinated response is critical to deal with the challenge posed by desert locusts.The Ministry of National Food Security and Research and provincial agricultural departments have decided to strengthen the national action plan to combat locust attacks in all the four provinces. In a related development, a Chinese technical team is visiting Pakistan to assess the situation. It reviewed the situation of locust-affected districts of Punjab with the Punjab Agriculture Department in Lahore. The team has presented its aerial and ground assessments to the ministry’s officials. The technical team will prepare and submit a comprehensive report to the ministry, based on which the Chinese assistance would be determined. The national action plan will further be strengthened in line with the recommendations of the report.Pakistan has seen sporadic locust attacks in the past too. In the early 1960s, the locust attack was so severe that the Plant Protection Department had to deploy PAF aircraft modified to spray insecticides aerially to control the locust attack.Locusts are a collection of certain species of short-horned grasshoppers in the family Acrididae that have a swarming phase. Locusts have formed plagues since prehistory. The ancient Egyptians carved them on their tombs and the insects are mentioned in Homer’s epic Iliad, the Bible and the Quran. Swarms have devastated crops and been a contributory cause of famines and human migrations. More recently, changes in agricultural practices and better surveillance of locations where swarms tend to originate, have meant that control measures can be used at an early stage. The traditional means of control are based on the use of insecticides from the ground or the air, but other methods using biological control are proving effective.Swarming behaviour decreased in the 20th century, but despite modern surveillance and control methods, the potential for swarms to form is still present, and when suitable climatic conditions occur and vigilance lapses, plagues can still occur. They are also edible insects; they have been eaten throughout history and are considered a delicacy in many countries and halal in Islam.Teams of locust experts from the two countries meet six times a year to discuss the evolving situation and share information about pest breeding patterns, control strategies and local forecasts. Three of the meetings are held in Pakistan and three in India under a decades-old mutual understanding. Pakistan was “working closely” with regional countries, including India and global partners, particularly the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), to address the looming locust threatLocust attacks in the 21st Century are being attributed to global warming. A major infestation covered much of western Africa in 2003-4, after unusually heavy rain set up favourable ecological conditions for swarming. The first outbreaks occurred in Mauritania, Mali, Niger, and Sudan in 2003. The rain allowed swarms to develop and move north to Morocco and Algeria, threatening croplands. Swarms crossed Africa, appearing in Egypt, Jordan and Israel, the first time in those countries for 50 years.In a rare show of camaraderie, the erstwhile hostile neighbours Pakistan and India have held three back-to-back meetings to deal with the one common enemy─ the very intrusive desert locust. Back in 2019, multiple districts of Rajasthan and Gujarat faced huge damage to standing crops. As per reports, there is a forecast of a bigger invasion of even greater magnitude, June onward, if compared to the last year. According to the Agriculture Ministry, it is also predicted that, invasion could occur in scheduled desert area (200,000 sq. km) of India in June 2020 with the advent of the monsoon by spring-bred swarms from southeast Iran, southwest Pakistan and the Horn of Africa that may be of a greater magnitude than last year.Pakistan has to handle the locust plague on a war footing and get as much help as possible from neighbouring India and China. Pakistan was “working closely” with regional countries, including India and global partners, particularly the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), to address the looming locust threat.The ongoing wider regional cooperation is happening under FAO’s Commission for Controlling the Desert Locust in Southwest Asia (SWAC), established in 1964 with Afghanistan, India, Iran and Pakistan as its members.Under the proposed trilateral response, New Delhi has reportedly suggested to Islamabad that both countries “coordinate locust control operations along the border and that India can facilitate supply of malathion, a pesticide, to Pakistan.”Keith Cressman, FAO’s senior locust forecasting officer, has stated that India and Pakistan face an “imminent threat of several waves of spring-bred swarms” from southwest Pakistan and southern Iran. The Hindu quoted Indian officials as saying that Iran has welcomed the offer of pesticide to control desert locusts in the arid Iranian province of South Khorasan and the Sistan-Balochistan province that borders Pakistan. Analysts say the danger posed by the locust attack has apparently pushed New Delhi and Islamabad to set aside mutual differences to increase cooperation to tackle the challenge at a time when both countries are struggling to contain the spread of the coronavirus.Despite mutual tensions, locust-related cooperation between India and Pakistan has been going on for decades to ensure food security in both countries.Teams of locust experts from the two countries meet six times a year to discuss the evolving situation and share information about pest breeding patterns, control strategies and local forecasts. Three of the meetings are held in Pakistan and three in India under a decades-old mutual understanding.Pakistan was “working closely” with regional countries, including India and global partners, particularly the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), to address the looming locust threat. The ongoing wider regional cooperation is happening under FAO’s Commission for Controlling the Desert Locust in Southwest Asia (SWAC), established in 1964 with Afghanistan, India, Iran and Pakistan as its members."
Web Desk,India-Nepal border dispute- new strategic dimensions,2020-05-27,"Part of the Hindutva agendaBy: Bilal Ahmad SheikhIndian Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the 80-kilometre (50-mile) Lipulekh road, which will serve as the shortest route between the Indian capital, New Delhi, and Kailash-Mansarovar, a revered Hindu pilgrimage site in the Tibetan plateau. The link road via Lipulekh Himalayan Pass is also considered one of the shortest and most feasible trade routes between India and China. Nepal views the alleged incursions as a stark example of bullying by its much larger neighbour. In fact the Indian extremist think tankis now opening all disputed avenues to grab more power and strategic advantages in all neighboring countries.After the devastating episode of the absorption of Sikkim into India in 1975, the Nepalese always struggled to save their country from Indian aggression. The country was never colonized, but served as a buffer state between Imperial China and British India.Many Nepalese had actively taken part in the Indian Independence struggle and wanted to liberate Nepal as well from the autocratic Rana occupation. The Rana domination ended after the struggle led by the royal Shah family reached an agreement called the ‘Delhi Compromise’. Thus Indian influence directed all actions and reactions in Nepalese power circles.Birendra Bir Bikram Shah succeeded to the Nepalese throne on 31 January 1972, at the age of 27. He tried to maintain a balanced foreign policy between India and China. He had a greater commitment to democracy within the country, but Indian influence played a vital role in decision-making. Birendra Bir Bikram Shah slowly improved relations with China and also started relations with Pakistan. Birendra Bir Bikram Shah is credited for introducing SAARC in Asia in order to strengthen the foreign relations of Nepal with the other South Asian countries.Nepal is a small state and fighting for its rights from the world, but in front of Indian aggression no one is helping Nepal at any forum. UNO and all otheri international forums have kept silent at this aggression. Pakistan and China must watch and help the Nepalese people due to the fact that this area is on the door step of Kashmir and holds strategically very important locations which can affect us in futureIn 1989, when the People’s Movement was taking momentum and turned into a bloodiest movement, as a condition of safeguarding the Panchayat system, India put forward some conditions to King Birendra aimed at taking control of national sovereignty. If the King had accepted these conditions, the panchayat system would not have ended. But the king said, “It is better to surrender to the people rather than surrender to India.”The 1990s People’s Movement drafted the constitution which came into effect in November 1990. This constitution forced the monarchy of King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev to hand over decisions of government to the Nepali people. This move of King Birendra not only reflects his commitment to the people of Nepal but closed many avenues of Indian intervention. But power politics of Nepalese political parties once again brought instability to the country. A rebellion was launched by the CPN-M on 13 February 1996 with full support from Indian Intelligence Agency RAW.India stopped all supplies of arms to the Nepalese Army and lobbied successfully in the UK and the USA, accusing the Nepalese Army of human rights abuses. China supported the Nepalese Government in the wake of this violence by supplying arms. The obvious purpose of this insurgency was to overthrow the Nepalese monarchy and establishing a People’s Republic.The insurgency resulted in the deaths of over 17,000 people including civilians, insurgents, army and police personnel, and internal displacement of hundreds of thousands of people (mostly of rural Nepal). The conflict was characterized by summary executions, massacres, purges, kidnapping and other war crimes and crimes against humanity by insurgents with the help of the Indian Army.King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev was a person who always neutralized Indian pressures and with his balanced foreign policy Nepal successfully maintained normal relations with China and other countries. The stability of Nepal was threatened even more when Birendra and his family (including Queen Aishwarya) were massacred at a royal dinner on 1 June 2001 by his eldest son King Mahendra. This massacre was instigated by RAW, which was proved later.Nepal is a landlocked nation, and imports all of its petroleum supplies from India. Roughly 300 fuel trucks enter from India on a normal day. The 2015 Nepal blockade, which began on 23 September 2015, was an economic and humanitarian crisis which severely affected Nepal and its economy. The reasons are all the same. The Indian Government secretly forced Nepal to adopt a new Constitution which directly eased Indian influence. Nepal’s increasing cooperation with China, including its purchase of Chinese weaponry, was also seen as one of the major factors behind this blockade. A strong earthquake also contributed to the misery in Nepal.India and China had agreed to include Lipu Lekh pass as a bilateral trade route in a May 2015 joint statement, Nepal had issued separate diplomatic protest notes to the two Asian giants for not obtaining Kathmandu’s consent. The recent dispute over road building is also to be seen in context of the last diplomatic note issued that months ago, India had issued a new political map to show the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two new Union Territories. In it, it depicted Kalapani as part of Indian territory, which led to a strong objection from Nepal. China cleared its position by stating that “road building from India is nothing to do with India–China Trade Agreement.”The Lipulekh Pass is claimed by Nepal based on the 1816 Treaty of Sugauli it entered with the British colonial rulers to define its western border with India. Kathmandu also claims the highly strategic areas of Limpiyadhura and Kalapani, although Indian troops have been deployed there since New Delhi fought a war with China in 1962. The Himalayan region, which borders the Indian state of Uttarakhand, is also included in Nepal’s official map.Nepal is a small state and fighting for its rights from the world, but in front of Indian aggression no one is helping Nepal at any forum. UNO and all otheri international forums have kept silent at this aggression. Pakistan and China must watch and help the Nepalese people due to the fact that this area is on the door step of Kashmir and holds strategically very important locations which can affect us in future."
Web Desk,Covid-19 and Capitalism,2020-05-27,"How the profit model is breaking downBy: Ahmad SherazThe ongoing viral crisis in the world is novel in the way it has involved life everywhere on the planet unequivocally. The human race is back to its primary mode; survival. And that’s the issue with capitalism, it was never made for survival.Capitalism simply works on a profit-first-based system, thus it has been busy financing anything but gear for survival. So it’ll be some humor when humanity will say that they had means and plans to invade and conquer Mars by 2021, or countries will boast of having nuclear weapons to erase continents within minutes, but no such blueprints to ensure medical equipment for themselves. Because the corporate system responsible for its production is driven by crazy profit and a corrupt hunger to lure humans into things they don’t really even need. Our priorities have not been defined by our needs, but instead they have been designed to cater the interests of a few capitalists controlling our markets. This was all playing out pretty beneficial for homo sapiens until nature introduced another pandemic.We are all in this one together. And even amidst of it, governments are not willing to accept the failures within their systems, as we see US President Donald Trump blaming China , and well China blaming US Marines; India is blaming Islam while Islamic scholars are blaming it on the wrath of God . This blame game is an unending phenomenon. But all are turning a blind eye to the real culprit, that is capitalism, as economies are dwindling around the globe and the crisis of food and air (ventilators) is worsening with each passing day.Economies are crashing, and the deeper we go into this with time, there is a chance of an Economic Pandemic for years to come. But is it really crashing due to this health problem the world is in? If we take a closer look monetary institutions were creating money and lending it to countries and companies at a low interest to keep the boat afloat for years and this borrowing of huge sums at low interest had made a huge gap between income and wealth and the upwards spiraling stock market trends were far away from underlying realistic values and profits. The truth is capitalism needed a scapegoat and nature gave them one; a virus.At the same time as the pandemic, capitalism has found no new tools. The world is being plunged into a Depression, John Maynard Keynes came forward to the rescue, with his theory that falling demand should be made up by government spending. At the moment, all that seems to be happening is that capitalism is using the same tools, of government spending a lot of borrowed money to keep up some demand, a lowering of interest rates, and basically everything in the Keynesian bag of tricks.We are not facing this imbalance due to anything but our own bad policies and the greed of the corporate world, and this situation could have been avoided by an alternative system, one that was not working on a profit-first basis. It would have been more efficient, manufacturing things on a need-first and common-sense-first basis. One comprising of enterprises run by workers, as the worker class believes and breathes in the concept of survival. This is how the post corona world should be, run by policies and governments that define human priorities as they are, with survival being the firstLet’s see it from another point of view , the poor countries of Africa , Latin America and Asia are looking for ventilators and testing kits in global markets but all those capitalist companies have told them to wait for some months as they are too busy satisfying the needs of First World. The equation is simple: that there is no profit in doing business in the Third World when you have a surging demand in the First World. And though poor countries are till date less affected by the virus, they don’t have the testing kits to know the actual figure, while on another pressing note some countries in Africa have less than 100 ventilators, for example, Senegal has four while Central African Republic has three working machines to cope with this respiratory pandemic.We are not facing this imbalance due to anything but our own bad policies and the greed of the corporate world, and this situation could have been avoided by an alternative system, one that was not working on a profit-first basis. It would have been more efficient, manufacturing things on a need-first and common-sense-first basis. One comprising of enterprises run by workers, as the worker class believes and breathes in the concept of survival. This is how the post corona world should be, run by policies and governments that define human priorities as they are, with survival being the first."
Web Desk,The great terror,2020-05-27,"Keeping fear out with good senseBy: Mohib Asad“It was the best of times, it was the worst of times……it was the season of light, it was the season of darkness,…it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair…..”Charles Dickens, — A Tale of Two Cities. (1859)These are the opening lines of the best-selling novel in history. It is a historical story about the French Revolution from 1789 to 1799. The revolution was later referred to the ‘Great Terror’ because of the blood and gore which overthrew a corrupt elite order, and established a republic, considered to date as one of the fairest dispensations of the Social Contract to this day.I have used this rather chilling title for this article because we, along with another 191 nations are living under the shadow of a possibly dreadful catastrophe. The covid-19 virus has infected over 5.6 million worldwideworld-wide, and galloping along merrily. Routine life has been hit for a six, and we look at each sneeze as a knell. What could be stupider?A lot of the fear surrounding this flu is because there is no known silver bullet to kill it. That a vast majority of infections heal themselves, by some process that has not been adequately explained by medics, is another concern. Who are the minority? And am I, or one of my dear ones, part of the category that falls seriously ill? This is the genesis of the great terror around in societies all over the planet, especially in countries with the high numbers of those affected.So far, Pakistan, although tense and stressed, has been spared the worst. Although we are well into the second month of our first known infection, the numbers of patients and casualties is low compared to many countries including some with much better education and healthcare systems. To begin with most patients had a history of recent travel abroad. Our known cases, then, were mainly imported. But it seems that the virus is now firmly stationed here; having found Pakistani hosts.However, as a food for thought consider this:For the last 12 generations Pakistanis have been ruled by governments formed by the elite. From the 18th century till 1947, it was the Brits and after that local brown elites whom Winston Churchill cynically termed “rascals, rogues, and freebooters” (sic). Be that as it may, the fact is that this country has one of the weakest healthcare systems in the world. According to a UNICEF report of 2018, Pakistan has the world’s worst infant mortality rate. The elite which captured Pakistan through the 1973 Constitution have given the people poverty, disease, spurious medicines, adulterated food, polluted cities, bad law-and-order, energy outages, disenfranchised women, restive minorities, porous borders, and general hopelessness in the future.The clarion call of the French Revolution was for “Liberty, Fraternity, Equality”. How many of these lofty ideals in the social contract do we have in this country? The feudal classes, who own this country in more ways than one, are unlikely to loosen their centuries-old draconian grip on institutions, merely because a few thousand fellow-citizens died in a plagueBut the sorry state in which Pakistanis have had to make do over at least 12 generations has tested Darwin’s theory that only the fittest survive. Those not designed to cope with the surrounding smut die very quickly. Those who survive develop antibodies against viruses and other pathogens floating around in squalid surroundings. I tend to agree with a large body of popular opinion, that the Pakistani herd will brush aside the Covid19 in a few weeks after the last imported case is quarantined. There are recently developed computer-based and AI-driven algorithms which predict the spread of the virus, and according to these models the actual rate of infection is far lower than that predicted. This lends credence to the theory that populations exposed to many pathogens develop more effective antibodies. The jury is out on this issue; we will know in a couple of months how hardy we are.This is not to suggest that we disregard the commonsensical preventive measures of this, or indeed, any other virus of the Corona family. Wash your hands and face, stay clear of strangers, and never ever touch your face except with a tissue paper. If internalized for all time, we will be healthier in the future.To return to Dickens:Firstly the losers:It is the worst of times for those who have lost a family member to the disease; for those who are sick with it; for those who are in quarantine; for those whose incomes have suddenly dried up; for all others who go around in constant dread of getting infected without knowing whence. It is the worst of times for all mothers who have family settled abroad; for patients of other long-standing diseases who can’t get regular medical attention as most hospitals are only half-functional; for the expatriate Pakistanis worrying about aging relatives back home.And the winners are:This is the best time for the electronic media outlets. With millions a captive audience their advertising rates must have tripled. So they broadcast the same gloom and doom hourly. Clinical psychologists unanimously agree that constant reiteration of bad things reinforces feelings of angst, creating serious depressions. What our TV channels do is exactly that. Where there is no bad news locally they import it from abroad. But money is money, and is most needed in bad times.Another sector having it great is the mobile networks.A third is the aarthi. He is the middleman between the farmer and the consumer of edibles. The aarthi is making windfall profits, stockpiling, and driving up prices by creating scarcity. This class of businessmen is a classical study in opportunism. First, they had the old ration card scheme trashed in cahoots with the elite of the 1970s, then got the government sold on the Utility Stores junket, and finally they have the whole food chain in their pocket. If government is really interested in ensuring food security, and not leaving the citizen at the mercy of vultures who fleece both the farmer and the public, it should bring back the old dog-eared ration card which used to ensure supply of standard items at affordable prices. This mafia must be praying for the long life of covid-19.The Utility Stores Corporation loses almost Rs 4 billion rupees annually, every year since 1974. As with the hundreds of other State Owned Enterprises, I, a taxpayer, am paying for its upkeep, and nobody tells me why? The beneficiaries are the USC’s 14,500 employees, and the aarthi who supplies sub-standard stuff to the outlets. Government persists in this inexplicable experiment at my expense.The beggary mafia is another group benefitting from the knee-jerk reaction of the government to pour billions into charity. Governments are not supposed to be in the charity business. That’s for the people of Pakistan with their enormous wealth. There is more gold in private coffers in this country than Fort Knox: There are Rs 15 trillion lying in commercial banks: There are more than Rs 3 trillion in currency notes; plus, unknown trillions in prize bonds; plus, all-cash-paid real estate of millions of trillions; plus billions of dollars in gunny bags hoarded in basements.So leave charity for the public. Just give them better governance. We all have highly developed social consciences, poor and rich alike. Starvation is never a scenario in this country, for which Allah SWT be praised. Government may, if it has loose cash, which we doubt, subsidize well-established local charities which are in the hundreds all over this country.The present dole-out is cosmetic and probably quasi-political, for which the government is already getting a lot of flak. Just reopen business and commerce so that the private social net does not dry up. This disease is a long-haul. How much money is being wasted will be known only when the Auditor-General of Pakistan looks at the books, accounting the $8 billion outlay in the last few weeks. Amnesty International has warned that transparent procurement and disbursement procedures are not being followed in many countries where governments are doling out emergency funds.Another thing which amazes a lot of thinking people is how Pakistan, with its cutting-edge arsenal of nuclear weapons, has such a weak engineering base. One of the major scares going around these days is the lack of ventilators in hospitals. Pakistan is a major supplier of surgical instruments internationally. I hope some bright young technician in Sialkot is at it now. Basically it is a low-tech cheap-to-produce machine but a lifesaver. Local production would be a major boost to the presently weak hospital system.Among a lot of other failures of the bureaucracy, a major default is the inadequate health and education sectors. If you look at the sanctioned budgets of these two departments, and the savings at the end of the fiscal year over our history, you will find billions unused and lapsed back to the Treasury. Bad planning and worse implementation of policy is the only explanation. The other day, a superior court ordered the recruitment of 800 doctors for the prisons. These posts were sanctioned years ago, but lie vacant. Blame the politicians?There are many takeaways from this horrendous present experience. Some say many fundamental beliefs and practices will evolve into a more ethical lifestyle post-covid-19. Maybe, maybe not. Time-tested wisdom is that the more things change, the more they remain the same. The clarion call of the French Revolution was for “Liberty, Fraternity, Equality”. How many of these lofty ideals in the social contract do we have in this country? The feudal classes, who own this country in more ways than one, are unlikely to loosen their centuries-old draconian grip on institutions, merely because a few thousand fellow-citizens died in a plague.Former Member, Federal Public Service Commission"
Zeeshan Khan,New trends in the pandemic,2020-05-26,"As time passes, the pandemic turns into a test of staying-powerTime is the second name of change but after the advent of the coronaVirus, this change is not usual. However, with this changing time, human behaviour has not changed proportionately. Although the pandemic has restricted human movement greatly, but the lessons might not have been learnt yet. Though such stillness as during the lockdown has not been seen earlier, many lives have been lost and the undesired numbers still continue to mount. These casualties include common people, security personnel, people from administration and the foremost defenders, the medical front line personnel as well.At present, the most important thing is to avoid covid-19 and this can be accomplished only by the highest degree of seriousness by people towards the pandemic. It also needs whole nation to stand united against the spread of the pandemic but initially, unity and power of decision making lacked here. Different lessons can be learnt from the calamity, for example; the human who was moving at a very fast speed is now bound by an unknown attacker sidelining all conspiracy theories. The population explosion, and lack of education, discipline and rule of law are also the main issues in Pakistan. The sole panacea is good-governance and citizens’ welfare. Nevertheless, markets and bazaars are teemed after softening the lockdown.The fact is that the new world order has been established with the post-Coronavirus world and now it is important to revamp and set up new social norms to get rid of the unnecessary and nonsensical practices in our society such as the morning shows, lavish Ramadan transmissions, post Iftar gameshows, unnecessary political-cum-current affair talk shows which only rotate about individual fights and fetch no pragmatic results for the nation, large Iftar parties and gigantic shopping Malls, marriage halls and shopping in the nights of Ramadan and especially on Chand-Raat (Night of moon). All black sheep and cronies are needed to be held accountable across board. Meanwhile, the SUPREME Court has turned the tables by completely annulling the state of lockdown. Moreover, the court thinks that covid-19 is not a pandemic in Pakistan whereas an epidemic of disease that spreads across a large region or worldwide, affecting a substantial number of people, is pandemic and so is covid-19 as the National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC) and rest of the world narrates daily through their data.The sessions of parliament only proved to be bouts of mudslinging between the government and opposition. It’s also test of leadership. Let the people not suffer due to political point-scoring during this pandemic. But, the question of no lockdown policy is if pandemic aggravate, the burden of onus will shift to whom?Scientifically, it is true that the peak is yet to take place in the country. However, it is also true that the deaths due to major ailments like heart and kidney diseases or tuberculosis are more than covid-19, but their treatments are not completely unknown contrary to the coronavirus. Albeit, Aitzaz Ahsan, a renowned senior lawyer and Ex-President of the Supreme Court Bar Association, is of the view that the apex court gave the verdict in hurry. Some people are also talking about the concept of herd immunity against the disease but this will not work out quickly because the results of herd immunity are generated when the number of daily infected patients is not unusual and secondly, the fruitful results of herd immunity are generated after about a year. So, the situation for the future is too risky.There is no treatment of the pandemic yet. According to WHO, a vaccine will also take time to be available in markets for use. Some secondary medicines like Remdesivir is yet the only approved drug to treat covid-19 patients after promising early trial results allowed emergency use authorization, but it is not the actual treatment, although, the drug was in development in 2009 to treat Ebola. Precautionary measures are the only solution yet. Social distancing is also useful.Lockdown has benefitted the world but it is not the ultimate solution as well. Lives are being affected in the worst way. Holistically, ending the lockdown is not the best option to follow for the time being. In this region of South Asia only Kerala, an Indian state, has been successful in coping with the disease but they also did not dare to diminish their lockdown completely.On the other hand, economic crises are unprecedented. The Bank of England has said that such an economic and banking crisis as that due to covid-19 pandemic, was seen 300 years ago. Pakistan is not going to be affected financially by the pandemic as badly as the West has been, because Pakistan is an agricultural country and only 1-2 percent agricultural activities have been contracted due to the pandemic, except the services sector. The Western economies mostly consist of the services sector. For example; only in the USA, more than 80 percent of people are connected with the services sector. Moreover, only only 1.4 percent work in agriculture, as opposed to over 70 percent in Pakistan. So, the economic effect on Pakistan will be less than on the West. Additionally, more than 30 million people in America have registered for unemployment benefits.According to the UN, the world economy will shrink by 3.2 percent due to the pandemic. It is considered the worst recession after the Great Depression of 1929.Demographics also matter from place to place and region to region. Additionally, Pakistan has only 0.5 percent elderly people above 80 years, and the USA has 5 percent people above 80. Therefore, the lockdown situation throughout the world varies and all the animals cannot be driven with the same stick. But, in spite of all these, SOPs and social distancing cannot be ignored. The need of the hour will decide the situation of lockdown, whether it should be there or not, or it should be soft or smart. A strict type of lockdown can also be implemented again but its duration must be short to access the repercussions of developing in to the worst of situations.The sessions of parliament only proved to be bouts of mudslinging between the government and opposition. It’s also test of leadership. Let the people not suffer due to political point-scoring during this pandemic. But, the question of no lockdown policy is if pandemic aggravate, the burden of onus will shift to whom?"
Amjed Jaaved,"Why, secular India is `of religious concern’ to USA",2020-05-26,"Not just Muslims are persecuted by India’s Hindu majorityIndia is the world’s biggest democracy. Article 25-A of its Constitution provides for religious freedom. Yet, the US Commission on International Religious Freedom called for putting it on the State Department’s religious freedom blacklist. The Report noticed, ‘In 2019, religious freedom conditions in India experienced a drastic turn downward, with religious minorities under increasing assault’. Not only Muslims but also Christians, Dalits and other minorities are persecuted communities. The USA has burgeoning politico-economic and strategic ties with India. As such, there is little chance the State Department will act as recommended. The USA never showed any empathy for Kashmiris under Guantanamo Bay (as a former CM called it) long before the covid-19 lockdown.What alarmed the Commission? “National minority” status in India is defined by religion. There are six `minorities’, Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists and Zoroastrians.The legal classification is not sacrosanct. Each caste has its own sub-divisions. Even Muslims are practically subdivided into ajlaf, ashraf and arzal. A Hindu dalit cannot enter a higher-caste temple, ride a bike or a horse, or wear casuals (nut must go barefoot). A dalit was murdered for sitting in a temple verandah. He can’t even eat in front of a Brahmin.The disagreement over the use of ‘harijan’ to refer to dalits goes back to the 1930s. ‘Harijan’, meaning ‘children of God’, was a term first used by Gandhi for dalits in 1932. When Gandhi started using the term, many including B.R. Ambedkar objected, as it was condescending and obscurantist in nature, an attempt to sidestep the real issue.Courts are reluctant to grant relief to members of lower castes or minorities. The Patna High Court acquitted 26 men, 16 under death sentence, from the outlawed upper caste militia Ranveer Sena for killing 58 Dalits at Laxmanpur Bathe on 1 December 1997.The Babri mosque demolition was validated. The court, in a way, admitted that the mosque was the ram janambhoomi. In another judgment, the court held that a mosque was not necessary for worship. It outlawed triple divorce. Khushwant Singh wrote that The Nanavati report to investigate the post-Indira-assassination Sikhs’ `massacre is ‘utter garbage’..The 2018 Bhima Koregaon violence refers to attack on visitors during an annual celebratory gathering at Bhima Koregaon to mark the 200th year of the Battle of Bhima Koregaon, in which British-led Mahar, had beaten Marathas. Stone pelting caused the death of a 28-year-old. Police took no action.Religious persecution mocks India’s Constitution. Not only Muslims but also other minorities have a miserable plight. To stifle dissent, India clamps its draconian laws. The USA’s `concern’ is understandableInstead, in August 2018 five activists, including Varavara Rao, Arun Ferreira, Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha, were arrested. Police slapped terrorism charges on them for, euphemistically, having `nexus with Maoist insurgents.A Buddhist girl, witnessing the Republic Day Parade, was picked up and molested in a military truck. Hindu Bengali settlers and soldiers have raped native Jumma (Chakma) women. Many Jain temples were converted into Hindu temples. Many Jains were converted into Hindus at the time Thousands of Buddhists converted to Christianity at mass conversion rallies.Propaganda heralds religious persecution. Indian authorities had linked dozens of covid-19 cases to the annual Tableeghi Jamaat conference in Delhi in early March, and health officials were racing to track down anyone with contact with the participants. Coronavirus fears and religious tension were already at a fever pitch, and it didn’t take long for them to intermingle. Videos falsely claiming to show Jamaat members spitting on police and others quickly went viral.Since March 28, tweets with the hashtag #CoronaJihad appeared over 300,000 times and were potentially seen by 165 million people on Twitter. The social posts were mostly fake. For instance, one post purportung to show a person spitting on a Hindu, was actually fabricated in Thailand.On the heels of the propaganda came religious pogroms by Hindu nationalists leaving 36 Muslims dead, their houses and shops burnt, including some mosques where they took refuge, in Delhi. The pograms were rooted in anti-Muslim hatred, dating back to pre-Partition. Subconsciously, Hindus believe that Muslims are untouchables. They are treated as a malaise. Several past events reflect how Hindus showed antipathy toward the Muslim, and occasionally other, minorities.To discourage dalits from converting to Christianity, not only the Centre but also the Indian states have deprived dalit Christians’ of minority-status privileges. Any Hindu who converts is socially boycotted and tortured.Six women at Kilipala village in Jagatsinghpur, Orissa, had their heads tonsured by influential Hindus for abandoning Hinduism. Christian missionaries are harassed, deported and even killed. Indian government ordered deportation of three American preachers on the first available flight. To add insult to injury, the preachers had a narrow escape when attacked by Hindu fanatics. Courts rarely punish people who manhandle Christian preachers.Hindus attacked Christians for a book which allegedly insulted Hindu deities. Investigations revealed the book was not written by any Christian, but had been displayed at one of the book-shops of the Emanuel Mission, which runs a chain of schools in various Indian states.Hindus ignore the fact that Christian missionaries started coming to India, particularly the North-East, in the late 19th century. They promoted education and socio-economic developmental work in the region. In Rajasthan, the Emmanuel Mission alone runs over 50 schools.Indian states sometimes conduct secret surveys of Christian population. With Narendra Modi CM, the Gujarat government harboured xenophobic attitude not only towards Muslims but also Christians. A 1999 survey of Christians in northern and central Gujarat was withdrawn after protests. Modi restarted the survey in 2003 in Christian-inhabited areas.In June 2000, four churches around India were bombed (Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu), one in Maharashtra ransacked. In September 2008, two were partly damaged in Kerala. In 2015, a church building under construction was vandalised in Haryana. St George church in Mumbai was also attacked by masked persons. In the same month, the cathedral of Jabalpur was attacked and over a dozen injured. The same cathedral had also been attacked in 2008 and the altar burnt down. In April 2015, St. Mary’s Church in Agra was vandalised and statues of Mother Mary and the Infant Jesus damaged. A Church in Kachna, Raipur, was attacked by a mob during a Sunday service and five people injured.Several churches were attacked in Delhi in recent years. including St. Sebastian’s Church (burned), and St. Stephen’s college chapel (vandalised and the cross desecrated with pro-Hindutva slogans).In Madhya Pradesh a church was destroyed and Bibles burnt in Mandla district in 2014. A 2015 Bible convention was attacked in Jabalpur, with allegations of religious conversions.Religious persecution mocks India’s Constitution. Not only Muslims but also other minorities have a miserable plight. To stifle dissent, India clamps its draconian laws. The USA’s `concern’ is understandable."
Malik Muhammad Ashraf,US malice against CPEC,2020-05-26,"Ambassador Wells talked out of turnThe outgoing US Assistant Secretary of State for South Asia Alice Wells, while addressing a farewell news briefing through a video link attended by journalists from South and Central Asia, hurled scathing criticism at China for burdening Pakistan with a heavy debt through the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor saying “ At the time of a crisis like the covid-19 pandemic, it is really incumbent on China to take steps to alleviate the burden that this predatory, unsustainable and unfair lending is going to cause to Pakistan” Reacting to her remarks the Foreign Office of Pakistan maintained that the remarks about debt obligations of Pakistan relating to CPEC were contrary to the facts as it was a flagship project of the Belt and Road Iniative, which was contributing positively to Pakistan’s national development. The Chinese Embassy in Islamabad also strongly repudiated Ambassador Wells’ statement, saying it was a totally baseless attempt to defame Sino-Pak relations and the CPEC.Anbassador Wells has not made such remarks for the first time. Speaking at the Woodrow Wilson forum for Scholars in Washington in late November 2019 she had also made similar observations. The US tirade against CPEC and its attempts to sabotage it along with India are known to everybody. The opposition to CPEC actually stems from the contain-China policy of the USA, meant to thwart the burgeoning Chinese influence in the region and beyond, which is considered as a threat to the US position as a world leader.The reality is that its assumption that the CPEC would ultimately land Pakistan into a debt trap is a travesty of facts. The major portion of the CPEC projects relating to infrastructure and energy, costing well over $40 billion out of the total projected cost of nearly $60 billion, pertains to direct Chinese investment. The Chinese loans constitute less than 10 percent of the total public debt of Pakistan and in no way can jeopardize the reform agenda of the incumbent government.The USA must understand that Pakistan is a sovereign country and knows well how her economic and security interests are best served. The CPEC in fact has imparted eternity to the bonds between the two iron-brothers and nobody can detract anything from it through false propagandaThe other falsehood regarding Chinese debt that Ambassador Wells blurted out was that the Chinese debt burden would start showing its impact within the next four to six years, which again was against the real situation. The Chinese loans have a maturity period of 20 years and the interest rate is 2.34 percent, and if grants are included, the value slides down to 2 percent. As is evident the claims made by Ambassador Wells are nothing but a well orchestrated propaganda to malign and denigrate relations between Pakistan and China and create doubt about the benefits that are likely to accrue to Pakistan with the implementation of CPEC. Pakistan government had then rightly expressed disappointment over her remarks and vowed to continue with the project, which is a game changing initiative not only for Pakistan but the entire region.CPEC is in fact is a monumental initiative for changing the economic profile of the entire region and a nationally owned undertaking by Pakistan, and there is no difference of opinion on its importance, efficacy and benefits among political leadership of all shades and state institutions. No wonder that about 150 countries and international organizations have signed agreements on BRI cooperation with China. It is pertinent to mention that even the UK has expressed interest in joining the CPEC. One could ask the USA, if it was so concerned about the economy of Pakistan, why has it not helped Pakistan in overcoming the energy crisis and building the much required infrastructure, in spite of being her ally?The Chinese embassy in Islamabad, while rejecting the claims made by Ambassador Wells, reminded the USA that since the commencement of the implementation of CPEC, it had brought $25 billion direct investment in Pakistan and created more than 75,000 jobs. It maintained that China has been the major source of foreign investment in the country during the last five years, as against US investment of $1billion between 2012 and 2019.The reality is that in the current fight against Covid-19 China has stood by Pakistan and donated medical equipment and materials worth more than $55 million. It is lending unqualified support to Pakistan’s own model of development. In the next phase of CPEC both the countries aim to strengthen cooperation on healthcare, industrial development, agriculture and education.China is a time-tested friend of Pakistan and, as against frequent betrayals by the USA, it has played a monumental role in her development and supported her on all issues of concerns, including Kashmir, at the global forums. Over the years China has supported the Kashmir cause and extended liberal economic and military assistance to Pakistan. When Pakistan was abandoned by its ally, the USA, during the 1965 war with India, China was there to help Pakistan as it did in each and every subsequent crisis.Pakistan is indebted to China for her role in the economic progress of the country. The construction of the Karakoram Highway, the Heavy Mechanical Complex at Taxila and the Chashma Nuclear Plants are the monuments of the ever-growing relationship. In the backdrop of the US-India deal for the transfer of civilian nuclear technology which Pakistan regarded as discriminatory act, China exhibited the strength of the friendship between the two countries by agreeing to help in the construction of two more nuclear power plants at Chashma.Pakistan and China also have very strong defence ties. The Pakistan Aeronautical Complex, in collaboration with the Chinese aviation industry, conceived the co-development and co-production of JF-17 Thunder aircraft in 1999 which, for Pakistan, was a big stride towards attaining self-sufficiency in the field of aircraft production, dictated by the turn of the events and the gravity of threats to its territorial integrity. The PAC has already completed the production of 50 aircraft under the Block-I project and is currently working on the Block-II project.Considering the astronomical prices of the modern combat aircraft, the JF-17 offers a highly cost effective solution with cutting-edge capabilities. A number of countries have shown their interest in purchasing JF-17 aircraft, and in view of this development PAC and CATIC have also signed an agreement for the joint sale and marketing of the aircraft which is likely to accrue substantial economic benefits to Pakistan besides further cementing defense ties between Pakistan and China. The induction of the JF-17 in the PAF has made our air defence impregnable and enhanced its operational readiness manifold, making our skis safer than before.China has also helped in strengthening the air defense system of Pakistan Army by providing Chinese built Low to Medium altitude Air Defence System, capable of tracking and destroying a variety of aerial targets at long ranges flying at low and medium altitudes.The USA must understand that Pakistan is a sovereign country and knows well how her economic and security interests are best served. The CPEC in fact has imparted eternity to the bonds between the two iron-brothers and nobody can detract anything from it through false propaganda."
Arif Nizami,The charade of sugar inquiry,2020-05-23,"Skirting the real issuesAmid the release of the damning sugar commission’s inquiry report there is talk of bringing in a conflict of interest law barring holders of public office from engaging in business activities. The prime minister has already directed the law ministry to prepare the draft of a conflict of interest law.Such a draft already exists on the annals of the National Assembly. The law was initiated back in 2016 as a private member bill by Murad Saeed. But for reasons quite obvious never saw the light of day.A similar law was enacted in KP (Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) in 2016 by the PTI (Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf) government. Conflict of interest law became a law in Punjab earlier this year as well.It is obvious that a law, sans tooth and the will to implement it, is useless. A broad spectrum of politicians- both in power and in the opposition- are directly involved in all kinds of business activity.The rot started with field marshal Ayub Khan after he took power through a coup de tat in 1958. His son Gohar Ayub set up the now defunct Ghandhara Motors. The dictator was founder of crony capitalism in Pakistan.Incidentally, this is the same Wajid Zia who did Sharif in while heading the JIT (joint investigation team) in Panama gate probe. It is no coincidence either that Shahzad Akbar SAPM on accountability readout the salient points of the Repot to the media and in his signature acerbic style, he lambasted the ‘sugar mafia.’But general Zia ul Haq, who ruled Pakistan from 1977 to 1988 with an iron hand, while invoking the name of Islam in order to make a political base for himself, mentored the Sharif family and the Chadhrys of Gujrat.Sugar mills owned and run by political office holders became the new normal. Interestingly the Sharifs as owners of Ittefaq foundry also manufactured sugar mills machinery. The foundry was nationalised by late ZA Bhutto’s regime and returned to the family by Zia.Cheap loans were facilitated through nationalised banks. Running into billions, a bulk of them were never returned. As a result, a new comprador culture emerged in Pakistan.But why sugar? The answer is quite simple. The feudal politicians saw a double advantage: cheap sugar cane and an industry that did not require much know-how to run.The Sharifs, apart from establishing their own sugar empire, sanctioned sugar mills as the machinery in many cases was being fabricated at the Ittefaq Foundries.Recounting a personal interaction, in 1997 when Nawaz Sharif was elected second time prime minister and the Chaudhrys were his close political allies, they came to see me at my house. I had the temerity to suggest that they should set a healthy tradition by not to engaging in business activity while in power.Ch. Shujaat was quite shocked. He retorted, “why not? We were victimised by Benazir; we have to make good our losses.”Since then the younger generation of the Sharifs, the Chaudhrys and others have moved on to other lucrative businesses as well.In fact, the formula of making money while the sun shines has been calibrated to perfection. Many a politician in power has a brother or son looking after his business intrests, blatantly promoted through state patronage.Take the curious case of federal minister Khusro Bakhtiar. He has been very conveniently absolved of any wrongdoing since technically his brother Makhdoom Omer Shehryar runs the RYK Group Sugar Mills.Khusro, hailing from Rahim Yar Khan, is not new to establishment politics. He has been able to find a ministerial berth in virtually every regime since Pervez Musharraf’s time.There are several NAB investigations against him relating to having assets much beyond his means. But having the protection of Khan, he is hitherto untouchable.It is well known that Chaudhary Munir, who looks after the intrests of the ruling family of UAE in Pakistan, is his political as well as business mentor. Because of the ‘Janoobi suba Mahaz’, that Khusro heads, he is politically vital for Khan.His brother Hashim Jawan Bakht holds the important portfolio of finance minister in Punjab, while Shehryar is looking after the business intrests of the family. A cool arrangement.In this backdrop a conflict of interest law will barely scratch the surface. Only if implemented in letter and spirit it can make a difference. However, present political dispensation leaves little room for optimism.The aviation minister Ghulam Sarwar Khan in a fit of candour has blown the cover off the so-called clean governance practises. According to him there are many SAPMs (special assistant to the prime minister) and advisors who hold dual nationality and have failed to declare their assets.The original mandate of the sugar commission was to probe the reasons behind price hike and shortage of sugar. Headed by Wajid Zia, the director general of the FIA (Federal Investigation Agency) the so-called commission soon morphed into another body tainted by political expediency unable to answer this fundamental question.Incidentally, this is the same Wajid Zia who did Sharif in while heading the JIT (joint investigation team) in Panama gate probe. It is no coincidence either that Shahzad Akbar SAPM on accountability read out the salient points of the report to the media and in his signature acerbic style, he lambasted the ‘sugar mafia.’Jahangir Tareen, the erstwhile close consort of Khan, was singled out for every crime perpetrated in the sugar industry. In many ways the report seems to be Tareen and opposition specific.According to the findings, JDW Sugar Mills, in which Tareen has a considerable shareholding that controls 20 per cent of the sugar market by virtue of its sheer size, under invoiced sales from bagasse and molasse resulting in 25 per cent cost inflation.JDW is found guilty in the report of forward sales, satta, benami sales and transferring money from PLC accounts to private accounts amongst other crimes.But why Tareen? What has he done wrong that Khan decided to go after his virtual deputy prime minister? Conceivably such are the vagaries of power.Tareen used vast sums of his own money to achieve the desired results for Khan. Despite his disqualification for holding public office by the apex court in April 2018 he carved an important niche for himself.He traversed the whole country on his private plane collecting a motley crew of carpetbaggers to join the Kings party in the making, before and post 2018 general elections. Of course, with a little help from the establishment with whom he had excellent contacts.In the process he created jealousies within the inner sanctum of the ruling party, primarily Asad Umer, Shah Mehmood Qureshi and quite a few others became his sworn enemies.Tareen perhaps forgot a cardinal norm of rulers that they usually bite the hand that feeds them. Perhaps some important persons having a stranglehold on Khan were also responsible for his undoing.With no political base, Tareen had become the most expendable that he had ever been since joining the PTI.The Report singles out chief minister of Sindh of granting sugar export subsidies to Omni group owned by Anwar Majeed, a close friend and business partner of Asif Zardari.But on the other hand, the Commission simply papered over the then finance minister Asad Umar’s decision while chairing an ECC (economic coordination committee) meeting in December2018.Thus, granting sugar millers permission to export 1.1 million tons of sugar in 2019 on the flimsy pretext that the country was in dire need of foreign exchange.He also defended the subsidy given by the Punjab government to sugar exporters. The Punjab CM falsely claimed that the subsidy was given by the Federal Cabinet despite the minutes of the meeting stating otherwise.Talking of double standards, Khan is personally Mr Clean but running a clean government in this dispensation is another ball game."
Rabia Ahmed,To expect the unexpected and be prepared for it,2020-05-23,"How do we manange the next time?How unexpected is life that within a few months the world …the entire world is taken over and the life of all its people changed… perhaps forever… by a miniscule ‘thing’ whose very existence as a ‘living’ organism is debated. That tiny organism, about 10,000 times smaller than a single grain of salt, has managed to halt traffic… aircraft, trains, massive trucks, trundling containers, everything. It has shut down businesses, some of them run by powerful magnates, ruin livelihoods and impressive economies, and kill more than 300,000 humans around the world, more than nukes managed to kill in Hiroshima and Nagasaki.In a world where humans boast about whose nuclear arsenal is larger and about being able to decimate their enemies by pressing a button, this tiny thing has ‘achieved’ much the same much more insidiously and very efficiently. Unlike clunky human bombs this organism has killed humans alone by means of a disease that has as yet no cure. Structures remain unharmed, houses, buildings and towers stand as before, and there is no damage to forests and wildlife. In fact if anything wildlife has thrived in the absence of man on the streets and with the decrease in the atmospheric pollution he caused.Can something be done so that even if there must be a lockdown… and the need will definitely arise again… we can survive it?Never has humanity been more united in distress, nor human beings worked more determinedly towards a common goal, a worthy goal, as they do now when they’re racing to develop a vaccine to combat covid-19, the disease. And never has what is good and what is bad in human society been more starkly differentiated for all to see. The inefficiency, the materialism, the selfishness, the opportunism displayed by a few persons in stark contrast to the selflessness and devotion of the many… doctors, nurses, medical researchers, charities and the such whom the world can never thank enough.Never have the most crucial problems in society been more thrown into relief, like the important bits in a document being highlighted in fluorescent colours or typed in a bold font to catch the reader’s eye for maximum impact. We see starkly as never before the difference in the suffering of the rich on the one hand and the less fortunate on the other. Perhaps it was needed to put it this way because the difference was always there and was always stark but we had got used to it.The world has become used to incorporating poverty within it as if it were some kind of necessary ingredient, like leavening in bread or water in coffee. We exist within viewing distance of poverty, we allow it to persist and grow as if nothing can be done about it. We accept without much question the differences that exist in society, in housing, education, nourishment and health care. This is not just in Third World countries, it is also in countries like the USA where homeless persons may be found living in parks in residential areas, where the difference in health care is mindboggling depending on whether you have insurance or not, or in Pakistan the difference between being able to afford a good private hospital or not.It is inequality that is more or less inevitable, not poverty, the kind that leads to immense disadvantages… that is not necessary at all, and something can be done about it if the will exists.If even after this, these issues are not tackled, then the next disaster might come that much closer to annihilating us all. And there will be nobody to blame but ourselves. If we are still aliveNow, for the poor, the choice is very much in black and white. For the others there are options. For the poor this episode of covid-19 has been a choice between dying of the virus and dying of want. For the rest it has been an inconvenience, of having to make do without help, of having to disinfect and wash and not being able to socialize. But in the process we have seen the interdependence of one upon the other, how much we need various trades– the butcher, the baker, the candlestick maker, and how much they need our custom. It comes home to us that everyone does not have a bank account much less access to online banking, so people don’t get paid while there is a lockdown, or they are not paid because they do not earn. So there is an increase in violence, what a surprise.Can something be done so that even if there must be a lockdown… and the need will definitely arise again… we can survive it?If even after this, these issues are not tackled, then the next disaster might come that much closer to annihilating us all. And there will be nobody to blame but ourselves. If we are still alive."
Raoof Hasan,Multilateral capture and the aftermath,2020-05-23,"Long is the list of frauds; befitting should be the punishmentsCandid Corner“Whoever commits a fraud is guilty not only of the particular injury to him who he deceives, but the diminution of that confidence which constitutes not only the ease, but the existence of the society.” _ Samuel JohnsonThe Enquiry Commission Report makes for a long list of vile frauds committed by the sugar industry cartel ranging from manipulating cane procurement to working out the cost of production, massive tax evasion to artificial price hike, benami sales to fake export claims, hoarding to satta and illegal capacity enhancement to deceitful power production gimmicks! There was double booking, under-reporting and over-invoicing. Duplicate books were maintained and huge amounts were regularly transferred from company accounts to personal coffers. This is tantamount to massive regulatory capture as all state institutions collapsed in the face of a multipronged manipulative onslaught masterminded by this cartel.Indicting the regulatory bodies as being responsible for this messy situation, the Sugar Enquiry Commission has recommended sending copies of the report to NAB, FIA and anti-corruption departments of the provinces to proceed further with initiating appropriate action.In addition to the government, it is the poor people of the country who had to suffer at the hands of this mafia on a minimum of two counts: by receiving less than their hard-earned due for the sugarcane sold to the mills and paying exorbitantly more for buying the end product.This investigation is the first of its kind ever conducted in the country. Even more singular is the fact that its findings have been made public without any redactions. For this, Prime Minister Khan deserves our gratitude. He has demonstrated a high level of courage, commitment and resolve, to uphold the ideals that he has always stood by. This one action will further nurture those ideals and it is hoped that, from here onwards, his credentials would be boosted as the confidence of people grows further in him.It is seldom that a leader would come along, determined to undertake the challenge of transforming the destiny of a country. Pakistan has one in Imran Khan. It is essential that all of us look beyond our respective prejudices and extend a helping hand to accomplish the task, with media and judiciary playing pivotal roles. If that may not be so, it would be the making of a monumental tragedy. Thereafter, the state would be but a skeleton, tossed around at the mercy of these gangs of inveterate criminalsBut, for that to happen, a number of steps are yet to be taken. Having the enquiry held and making the findings public is just one part of the task. The more important part is to implement the recommendations without exception. This, inevitably, would include holding people accountable for decisions they took, whether they be part of the Prime Minister’s team, or they sit with the opposition. Even if a single exception is created on one pretext or the other, the purpose of the entire exercise would be defeated. I understand that the Prime Minister remains fully resolved to not only do this, but to go after all cartels which are operating in the country. That is the only way to get the better of these criminal gangs who have been running their own governments within the government.In spite of the fact that the findings are broad-based, focusing on businesses managed by people on both sides of the divide, the ones from the opposition accused of these fraudulent practices were busy making ludicrous claims in their own defence and those who are their associates and family members, some of whom have already been declared absconders. It was a pathetic sight to see a former chief minister of Punjab, whose family has ruled the province for more than 20 years and whose elder brother has been the prime minister of the country thrice, come up with incoherent and illogical stuff in a desperate bid to escape the damage. Then there was this other person who served as the prime minister of the country, and who helped a former finance minister escape the clutches of law in his own official plane, not having a clue to what he was stating on air.The response from within the government ranks has been more subdued. Except for one individual who has vowed to fight the charges, the others have opted to remain silent. That would inevitably mean that they would be willing to face the cases when these are registered. One coalition partner of the government has tried to disassociate himself by claiming that he had no role in managing the industry which has been implicated in the report. The veracity of this claim would be ascertained when investigation commences.The Sugar Commission Report is not the only source of concern for those who have habitually indulged in manipulating the system to loot and plunder the state. It is reported that the Debt Enquiry Commission has also submitted its findings to the Prime Minister. This commission was looking into the (mis)use of loans of over Rs 24,000 billion during 2008-18. It has allegedly pointed out monumental loss to the national exchequer pertaining to various developmental projects. The commission also evaluated the success rate of development schemes undertaken with the financial assistance of the World Bank, Asian Development Bank and other institutions at 25-30 percent. The report has also highlighted the criminal role of some beneficiary families of the country.This is not the end. The sugar mafia is not the only culprit. Virtually every business is in the grip of suchlike mafias, be it the textile industry, the car manufacturing industry, independent power producers, or other similar conglomerates. They are all into the business of exploiting the state for their personal benefit. There are going to be more enquiries and more scams will be unearthed, of similar or graver proportions, involving mafias which have driven the state to the brink of collapse. This has taken a long time in coming which is not like how the Prime Minister would have liked to operate. But, there were grave challenges in terms of the economic survival which the previous regimes had left behind. That delayed the onset of the accountability process in earnest. But, sleepless will be the nights of these mafias now as they would not find a respite, no matter how hard they try.The media’s conduct has always been dubious and it continues to be so, but when cases have been registered against the alleged criminals as a consequence of the findings of the report, the role the judiciary plays would be critical. It would determine whether we are headed towards dispensing justice, or the criminals would again be given relief vide bails on the basis of mere personal undertakings. This would tip the balance and no amount of genuine effort by the executive would bear fruit if the judiciary decides to play the adversarial role. We have seen that happening in the near to distant past, and the likelihood of a repeat performance cannot be eliminated. The judiciary must understand that, being a key pillar of the state, it is incumbent upon it to play a role which would facilitate and augment the resolve of the executive to cleanse the country of mafias and cartels which have bludgeoned it over decades of rampant corruption and misrule.It is seldom that a leader would come along, determined to undertake the challenge of transforming the destiny of a country. Pakistan has one in Imran Khan. It is essential that all of us look beyond our respective prejudices and extend a helping hand to accomplish the task, with media and judiciary playing pivotal roles.If that may not be so, it would be the making of a monumental tragedy. Thereafter, the state would be but a skeleton, tossed around at the mercy of these gangs of inveterate criminals."
Dr Farid A Malik,"Corona reset, It is back to the basics",2020-05-23,"The lessons of the pandemic must not be lostIn the 20th century the following sentence was widely used by most open-minded progressive writers, “Hunger and famine outside will not allow feasting inside”. In order to reach an equitable balance there were three major revolutions ( Bolshevik, Chinese, Iranian ) and two world wars (WW I, WW II). The human toll was very heavy, it was a century of bloodshed and conflict.Unfortunately the world started moving in a different direction before the advent of the 21st century. Concepts of free market, deregulation, globalization and privatization started to emerge. Uncontrolled capitalism started to dominate, and even elected governments failed to work for the common good which has now become uncommon. It was both the best and the worst of times. Those with capital could multiply it with ease but those without it were left behind to decay. Even the basics of life, like decent employment, education, health and food, slipped away from a vast majority of the world population.Progressive thinkers were hoping for the bubble of this evil status-quo to burst. Finally before the start of the Twenties of the 21st century, the so called information age, the ‘coronavirus pandemic’ engulfed the world like wildfire. The entire world came to a grinding halt. The struggle for the basic needs of life became important. Health and food became the top priority for survival. Instead of missiles and armaments for survival and safety, soap became important. Globalized nations were the hardest hit due to the influx of people, the bounties of deregulation could not save lives. António Vieira Monteiro, the President of Santander Bank in Portugal, died of coronavirus, leaving behind all his wealth to his heirs. First it was Italy with over 32,000 deaths by Friday afternoon, now it is the USA with over 93,000 fatalities by the same time that leads the pack. China with its centralized controlled planning was able to contain the Coronavirus with around 4600 deaths.Instead of wealth, the priority has to shift to humanity. Focus has to be on food for the many rather than feasting for the few as has been the case in the last few decades. Dr Iqbal talked about the day of judgement ( Roz-e-Mukafat ), he lived through the Russian Revolution, predicted the Chinese movement and influenced the Iranian uprising through scholars like Dr Ali Shariati. Pakistan was also his dream. The the land of the pure is also in a reset mode for the first time since July 1977 when democracy was disgraced by introduction of thugs into the political arena. Hopefully the party of the unscrupulous is finally coming to an end. The Prime Minister wants to reach out to the deprived and suffering segments of the society. In the 1960s Bhutto based his politics on Food, Clothing and Shelter (Roti, Kapra, Makan). After the passage of over half a century, the issues remain the same. ‘Coronavirus’ has brought the focus back where it belongs. It seems a breakthrough for change has happened, but at a heavy human toll.Once the mess of borrowed money is cleansed, the nation must make a firm pledge never to borrow again as it was managed till October 1958. This fast-track development on borrowed resources has not worked. The term Human Race covers people from all walks of life, let us rise together. Fidel Castro was once asked, “Has Socialism failed?” He replied, “Where has Capitalism succeeded?” The future course for the welfare of mankind is between the two extremes, perhaps a Welfare State where every citizen countsBritish PM Boris Johnson, the third most powerful leader of the world after the Presidents of the USA and China, had a close brush with death. After being diagnosed with coronavirus he first went into self-quarantine, but as his condition did not improve he was hospitalized and remained in the ICU where oxygen was pumped into his lungs for days. The doctors were not sure if he would make it, and necessary arrangements were made in case of his death. Short of the ventilator he came around. Now he is back in the saddle, full of praise for the National Health Service ( NHS ) which his Conservative Party does not support. Some lessons have been learnt. Healthcare has to be taken seriously at the national level. The job cannot be entrusted to the profit-driven private enterprises, and the same holds true for education. Recently a Karachi-based doctor lost his life as he could not reach a ventilator in time. He was in self-isolation but when he faced difficulty in breathing he called for an ambulance to be hospitalized. He was refused admission in several hospitals and eventually lost his life moving around in search of a ventilator.The blind glitter of money has taken away the love for humanity. The skewed distribution of wealth has also become a pandemic. It has turned into an incurable disease to build financial empires hoping to dominate the world. Religious scholars believe that nature has struck back by sending a clear message that the status quo cannot continue. Chairman Mao said, “Revolution comes from the barrel of a gun” but this time it seems it has come by way of the virus. The Chinese miracle was achieved with a rag tag, ill-equipped ‘ People’s Liberation Army ‘. Fearing change the empires decided on massive build-up of armaments to ward off reprisals from the oppressed masses. Fighting the status quo and the state apparatus is no longer a workable option. The pandemic to a great extent has neutralized the advantage of brute force, giving equitable peace a chance.During my student days in US there was a popular joke making rounds. It was termed ‘Jewish Dilemma’ the answer was ‘HAM ON SALE.The Jews like the Muslims are only allowed to eat Kosher or Halal meat. However only in extreme life threatening situations the Muslims can eat Non-Kosher stuff. After the revolution, China has now emerged as the second largest economy of the world with surpluses running into trillions of dollars, I am sure they can now survive without the wet markets. Beef, chicken, mutton and ducks are now affordable. In discussion with my Chinese friends they still believe that with their size of population, they cannot be selective in their choice of meat. The current outbreak of coronavirus calls for a re-evaluation of this approach of eating everything that moves.In Pakistan a reset has taken place. The poor segments of society are now being given relief both in cash and kind. The health sector has been revamped to deal with a possible overload of victims. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA ) has played an effective role in organizing this massive effort. But it must not end here, and the focus on common good should continue. Roti, Kapra, Makan cannot be overlooked. The country faces a massive burden of external debt ( $100 Billion ) which it cannot pay back as most of it has been misspent. Instead of temporary relief, the efforts should be for a total write-off. Once the mess of borrowed money is cleansed, the nation must make a firm pledge never to borrow again as it was managed till October 1958. This fast-track development on borrowed resources has not worked. The term Human Race covers people from all walks of life, let us rise together. Fidel Castro was once asked, “Has Socialism failed?” He replied, “Where has Capitalism succeeded?” The future course for the welfare of mankind is between the two extremes, perhaps a Welfare State where every citizen counts.The writer is Ex-Chairman Pakistan Science foundationHe can be reached at [email protected]"
Web Desk,Dimensions of global change and COVID-19,2020-05-23,"Governments and the older generation must be carefulBy: Dr Rajkumar SinghWith the global humanitarian system already on its knees due to unprecedented demand, an injection of resources will be urgently needed. Development organizations and institutions should already be retooling for a future where fewer developing countries will be able to thrive from export-driven economic growth.As a measure of working together, governments can institute measures where shareholders and creditors take most of the pain, while public funds are used to keep people solvent and to get them back to work as soon as it is safe. The world’s international development actors must also move onto a crisis footing. Poorer countries are younger demographically, so they may not see death rates comparable to those of China and Europe. But their populations are sicker, their health systems weak and their economies vulnerable. Even some— and perhaps many— rich countries are in the early stages of a humanitarian crisis. Above all, this is the time to move beyond mere rhetoric about building more equal societies. Historically, war has often led to sharp reductions in inequality, as the wealthy pay a higher share of taxes and governments intervene in ways that cut the slice of the cake taken by investors. Initially, these measures can be paid for through public borrowing, but eventually the rich will have to foot much of the bill, with more of the burden of taxation shifting from labor to wealth.Otherwise, we believe it is inevitable that capitalism itself will increasingly be called into question. We must not repeat the mistakes of 2008 and allow popular anger to fester. Neither can democracies afford to let a sentiment take hold that authoritarian governments were better at responding to this challenge.In a networked world, new forms of cooperation will be needed that thoroughly blur the line between state and non-state actors. We must all decide whether to see ourselves as separate islands or as part of “a Larger Us” that understands, and acts on, our irreversible interdependenceBut democratic governments must build models that are true to their own values, fighting the pandemic not just with the consent of their citizens, but through the active participation of all parts of society. That means bringing leaders from civil society, faith groups, youth organizations and businesses into the heart of the emergency response from the beginning, with key individuals given the security clearance needed for them to contribute to strategic planning.Global business can help by creating new standards for productive virtual working; ramping up production of life-saving products, as a group of CEOs convened by the World Economic Forum is already trying to do; and proposing plans for protecting jobs in industries at risk of being destroyed by the pandemic.Grassroots organizations are mobilizing in impressive numbers and must be funded so they can be most effective in protecting the vulnerable, providing virtual services, offering psychosocial support in tackling loneliness and starting on the hard work of rebuilding community-level resilience. Those who, having been infected, have developed immunity will become a precious resource, as soon as a serological test can be used to detect antibodies. Democratic governments should invite them to join a global network of volunteers—call it the COVID-Positive Corps—exempting them from social distancing and freeing them to help vulnerable people and communities survive.Governments must also scale up their communication expertise. Many are doing a horrible job of explaining to their citizens what they are doing and why. Very few, if any, have thought about the need to listen to people and communities during the crisis. Social media companies and news organizations will have an especially important role in framing how we think about the outbreak, particularly when it comes to countering the spread of misinformation and conspiracy theories on their platforms. They will help determine whether people move into “fight-or-flight” mode, favoring the individual over the collective, or instead “tend-and-befriend,” in a way that promotes empathy and insulates us from extremist views.We must also start mitigating the intergenerational impacts of the pandemic and renewing the social covenant between old and young. The world has shut down to protect its older people. If we were all under the age of 65, the most effective strategy might be to allow the virus to spread, while trying to protect those with preexisting conditions. As it is, the young are being asked to sacrifice and step up for the old. The vast majority accept that their parents and grandparents are rightly our immediate priority, but solidarity between the generations must work both ways. The redistribution of wealth from older people with assets to younger people with little to their name is part of the answer. As young people are asked to sacrifice their education, it is essential that school and university budgets are protected and not diverted to pay for urgent health needs.This is also the time for older generations to support the decisive action on climate change and on more sustainable, equitable and resilient patterns of development that many younger voters desperately want. Space must be kept open for these priorities in a critical year for the Paris Agreement on climate change and for the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, which offer the closest thing we have to a global blueprint for future resilience.As industry and travel grind to a halt, leaders around the world should declare 2019 the year of peak emissions and launch a Green New Deal that turns this downward trend into accelerating progress toward decarbonization. This is the time to make tough decisions— for example, to prevent short-haul air travel from ever returning to pre-pandemic levels— while also creating jobs at the scale needed to build zero-carbon economies.Without a doubt, powerful vested interests will lobby for their own bailouts, while arguing that pro-climate measures are too expensive and should be delayed once again. By cooperating across borders, progressive governments, global civil society and green businesses can face these interests down and give us all much-needed hope in a better future. We also expect that new treatments will become available— perhaps more quickly than expected— and hope a vaccine will be available and widely deployed within 18 months. Mass testing may also allow a shift from a blanket lockdown to more targeted restrictions.Decision-makers must create space to plan for the medium- and longer-term challenges identified and to start immediately developing options for a world after the pandemic has been brought under control. As yet, it is too early to say what form this innovation should take, but it is time to begin addressing this question. The COVID-19 pandemic is a new kind of crisis, one that involves the behaviors and beliefs of billions of people and that has public health, economic, political, social, psychological and cultural dimensions. In a networked world, new forms of cooperation will be needed that thoroughly blur the line between state and non-state actors. We must all decide whether to see ourselves as separate islands or as part of “a Larger Us” that understands, and acts on, our irreversible interdependence.The writer is head of the political science department, B.N. Mandal Unversity, Madhepura, Bihar, India. He can be reached at: [email protected]"
Web Desk,Judicial notice of COVID-19,2020-05-23,"How far should the judiciary go?By: Saad AmirA global pandemic is the quintessence of a health emergency. Governments around the world are tackling the fallout of covid-19 through a range of bold and novel interventions. Given the unprecedented nature of the threat and the need for urgent action, some of these interventions have impinged upon fundamental rights, including the rights of movement, association, and even the basic right to earn a livelihood. The leeway governments are afforded in such times to make informed decisions on-the-fly must reflect the gravity of the situation faced. It is in this context that an appropriate judicial response to the fallout of this pandemic ought to be fashioned.The recently concluded Supreme Court proceedings in Criminal Petition 299 of 2020, an appeal challenging the Islamabad High Court order granting bail to a category of under-trial prisoners, offers a glimpse into the Supreme Court’s understanding of its role in these times; one which may be in need of review and course correction. The observations made are based on a single but significant intervention sought to be made by the Supreme Court, relating to the closure of Out-Patient Department (OPD) wards in hospitals across the country in April.A brief segue into constitutional theory may help contextualize the observations which follow. Democratic constitutions, including ours, envisage a distribution of power and division of labour amongst the several branches of government (the legislature, the executive, and the judiciary), with checks and balances shielding each branch from the invasive tendencies of the others. Such checks have historically afforded a purely deliberative institution, such as the judiciary, room to breathe and carve out an institutional space for itself: a case in point being the hard-won and harder-kept independence of the judicial branch in our own country.The seeking out of and over-exposure to the fickle world of public opinion has the potential of chipping away at the traditional roots of judicial legitimacy, and undermining the enterprise of democratic government which our constitution enjoins the organs of the state to collectively undertake. In these times of profound introspection and uncertainty, the superior judiciary might do well to also direct its probing gaze inward and consider structuring its more discretionary powers, and acting with greater transparency, restraint and circumspection in their exerciseThis division and distribution of powers can and ought to be read on a broader plane though: to be in service of the joint enterprise of government. In other words, the mutual relations of the several branches of government are meant to integrate these branches into a workable government. In some contexts, this will play out in a supervisory manner where the aim is to check and hold the other to account. At other times, the branches will engage cooperatively to support each other’s role in the joint endeavour. For such collective action to work there must exist reciprocal respect between the great organs of the State. In practice, this would include respect for each other’s jurisdiction and an understanding of where and when the other institutions are better placed to make a decision or carry out a task.That brings us to the proceedings in the under-trial prisoners appeal. On 6 April, the Chief Justice of Pakistan (CJP), as part of a five-member Bench hearing the appeal, expressed dissatisfaction at the decision taken to close OPD wards across the country for people suffering from ailments other than COVID-19[1].On 8 April, a meeting was also chaired by the CJP in which Federal government officials, including the Advisors to the Prime Minister on Health and on the Ehsas Programme and the Chairman NDMA, briefed the Supreme Court justices regarding the response of the Centre and the Provinces to the pandemic. The issue of OPD closures was again raised at this meeting.On 9 April, OPD wards at several Sindh hospitals were made operational, as were OPDs at government-run hospitals in Punjab and the ICT, and at Medical Teaching Institutions (MTIs) and district-level health facilities in KPK[2]. These decisions were either stated to have been taken in order to comply with directions of the Supreme Court, or perhaps were precipitated by sentiments expressed by the Bench whilst hearing the appeal. Any such deference would be understandable given that executive authorities throughout Pakistan are obligated by Article 190 of the Constitution to act in aid of the Supreme Court.The Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), however, decided against re-opening its OPDs, in spite of orders from the ICT administration, citing concerns that that OPD operations could risk an outbreak of the virus, and observing that the emergency department at PIMS hospital was playing an effective role in treating patients. Subsequently, on 13 April, the 12-member Corona Experts Advisory Group (CEAG) in Punjab, which includes leading health experts, also strongly recommended the closure of OPDs in government hospitals across the province and opposed the decision to reopen the OPDs. The group cited findings of a global scientific study which said that 40 percent virus transmission was reported from health professionals to the general population, on account of the former being frontline actors in the fight against the pandemic. It stated that the assembly of hundreds of sick people under one roof in enclosed premises would increase the probability of transmission of the virus.This opening up of OPDs in the second week of April after several weeks of closure followed immediately by reclosures is a cause for concern. Intuitive but non-technical commentary on matters of public health coming from the highest court in the land, whilst well-meaning, is not conducive to formulating a suitable and coherent response to the ongoing crisis. Executive authorities have over the years acclimatized to an environment in which unsystematic demands are placed on them by judicial overreach. They may thus second-guess their best judgment in deference to the opinion of the Supreme Court. In a worst-case scenario, such deference may put the lives of health professionals and the general public at risk. Accounts pouring in from hospitals around the world, at the frontlines of the COVID-19 pandemic, attest to the ingenuity of health professionals faced with novel challenges which they are neither trained nor properly equipped to tackle. Difficult, ethically challenging and at times counterintuitive decisions are having to be made on a routine basis. These decisions, whether being made by health professionals or more generally by those devising and implementing public health policies, ought not be made while wondering whether they will pass the test of judicial approval.A separate but related concern has to do with the effect of bold judicial interventions (historically through the exercise of suo motu powers) on public perceptions of the judicial branch, and its sources of legitimacy. The increasing frequency of these interventions has had implications for an institution which derives its legitimacy from its perceived disinterestedness in the dispensation of justice.To elaborate, the very act of choosing what to take suo motu notice of can be viewed as an expression of interest. The Supreme Court’s past forays into a form of inquisitorial justice have by and large met with popular approval. Though the predilections of individual Chief Justices may shape the manner and frequency of the use of suo motu powers, it would appear that the public gaze and a recent history of expectation have helped cast the superior judiciary in a new irresistible mould: the judge as saviour and protector of the masses from the “mess and menace of politics”. But the seeking out of and over-exposure to the fickle world of public opinion has the potential of chipping away at the traditional roots of judicial legitimacy, and undermining the enterprise of democratic government which our constitution enjoins the organs of the state to collectively undertake. In these times of profound introspection and uncertainty, the superior judiciary might do well to also direct its probing gaze inward and consider structuring its more discretionary powers, and acting with greater transparency, restraint and circumspection in their exercise.[1] ‘CJP bemoans closure of OPDs for non-corona patients’ (https://www.dawn.com/news/1547074)[2] ‘Sindh hospitals begin opening OPDs days after Supreme Court’s criticism’ (https://www.dawn.com/news/1547840/sindh-hospitals-begin-opening-opds-days-after-supreme-courts-criticism)"
M A Niazi,Divisions over money,2020-05-22,"NFC Awards are meant to make provincial finances sustainableThe constitution of the 10th National Finance Commission was inevitable, after the 9th Commission, like the 8th, failed to make an Award. The present Award, which expires with this financial year, was made by the 7th Commission, and provided nothing beyond what was contemplated.The NFC is an essential part of the federal mechanism. Some would say it is the most important part, for it gives money to the provinces, and thus enables them to carry out their purposes. Especially in view of the provinces not being able to raise revenue from the taxes which the federation raised, it has been thought suitable to guarantee them a share in the federal taxes which are, it is pointed out, raised from the provinces. The formation of a finance commission, and the division of money between the centre and the provinces, was started, as were many other things, by the British. Both dominions have inherited the mechanism.In essence, there is a two-stage process. There is first a split between the centre and the provinces. Then there is the split among the provinces. The provinces have taken views favouring their situation. The NFC is also supposed to consider expected expenditures, and the NFC has primarily concerned itself with provincial finances. After each NFC, the provinces have usually been better off than before, but by the end of each award period, they have usually been finding it difficult to make ends meet. This position is magnified by the fact that Awards are meant for five years, but tend to take place at longer intervals. The absence of an Award is usually met by an extension of the existing Award, and this was done when the 7th Commission’s Award expired after the statutory five years.The problem is that the current Award has made a split which took account of the additional burden because of the transfer of some departments from the federal government to the provincial, resulting in the provinces needing more money to pay for them. Because of the division, which has given the provinces 35 percent, the federal government has found that it has simply not got the money to afford the kind of money the defence services have grown used to.That a government so closely aligned to the Army’s wishes should introduce such a concept, where none existed before, and which could be seen as abandoning the principle of centralization that is behind all government, and manifestly so in the case of a federation, was not to be expected. Paradoxically, that very centralizing principle which is propounded the Army and its supporters, is being invoked, and may tear apart the federationThe Terms of Reference of the present NFC seem designed to deal with this issue, though it may well be opening a Pandora’s Box which would throw up in the air the very existence of the federation, and which questions the very need for one. That has been by making it consider ways for the centre to charge the provinces for defence and disaster management. The need to charge for disaster management seems to have come from the vast sums the federal government is having to mobilise to meet the coronavirus expenditures.Though the concept of charging for defence might serve as a means of overcoming the Constitutional bar on revising downwards provincial shares, it puts up for debate all federal functions, and whether they should be charged for it. Is the federal government going to charge for conducting foreign affairs? For issuing stamps? The provinces do charge for resources, but only those included in the Constiution already. Sindh and Balochistan both receive royalties for the gas produced within them, and KP receives royalties for the hydel electricity produced within it. Punjab put forward a claim for royalty on its production of wheat, but it was not allowed, mainly because there was no constitutional provision mandating such a charge.That was not the only issue. There was the issue of the basis of interprovincial distribution. Until the Seventh Award, the basis was population, but Sindh pressed for origin of taxes, and Balochistan for area. There was continual resistance, but that Award saw a small weightage for tax origin conceded. That would probably mean that there would be an attempt to increase this weightage, so as to make up for the federal charges.It should not be forgotten that the concept of the federal government charging for services provided (it already charges citizens in the shape of taxes; this is the first time it would charge the federating units) will probably not be limited to defence and disaster management, but may well crop up again. If it is not conceded by the provinces in this Commission, they will crop up again.Disaster management may appear a temporary charge, but as the Prime Minister has said, the pandemic can be expected to become endemic, and it is likely that these measures will last. If they do, then so will the charges go beyond the five years of the Award period. Also, while the covid-19 pandemic is the disaster in mind, there are other disasters recurring, like the annual floods. There appears a doubling; for the floods usually see the armed forces take a leading role out of their own budget. Now, one can expect the provinces to be presented a bill.There are two issues that the defence services and the federal government may not have thought about. The provinces have so far stayed out of defence matters. But now they will have to intervene. After all, they will be paying hard cash. Besides, what happens if any province complains it is not satisfied with the quality of the defence it is paying for? What if it presents a list of steps it thinks should be taken? More sensitively, what if it complains about recruitment or promotion policies?It is a little surprising that a strongly centralizing party like the PTI would be responsible for a step which calls into question the basis of the federation. Internal order, external peace, and the freedom of the highways have been the duties of the state from time immemorial. While the provinces originated in the British East India Company’s three presidencies, the Indian central government was established later, when the Governor of the Calcutta Presidency was made Viceroy of India.How Pakistan’s provinces originated from this (and let’s not forget how the native states were involved) is a long story, but we seem to be coming to what the Company had: three separate armies, one for each Presidency, though there was a single Commander-in-Chief, under the Viceroy. The provinces already have at least one separatist movement each, and the present TORs are probably going to lead to the provinces demanding separate forces. The pattern of the pre-Partition State Forces may be dragged up.If provinces use this as a lever to get into defence policy, will it be possible to keep them out of foreign? Each borders at least one neighbor, and two are maritime. Will the armed services be able to do their job in the midst of running commentary by the provinces? The present situation, where provinces are ruled by opposition parties, cold be explosive. Imagine the present Sindh government commenting on defence and foreign policy, seen solely through the prism of Sindh’s border with India.That a government so closely aligned to the Army’s wishes should introduce such a concept, where none existed before, and which could be seen as abandoning the principle of centralization that is behind all government, and manifestly so in the case of a federation, was not to be expected. Paradoxically, that very centralizing principle which is propounded the Army and its supporters, is being invoked, and may tear apart the federation."
Web Desk,Covid-19 Prompts Cybercrime,2020-05-22,"Coronavirus crisis affects crime rates globallyBy: Hassan AslamThe pandemic wreaking havoc across the globe has caused thousands of deaths, driven economies to a screeching halt, and transformed the way we interact with one another. Unsurprisingly, crime is another sector that has not proven immune to the virus.Predictions for crime are region-dependent, however, the common link is the expectation that opportunistic criminals will take advantage of weakened justice and authority resources. In Pakistan, governmental security forces are under pressure to devote their efforts towards preventing the spread of covid-19 rather than fighting crime.Forums on the dark web, the brackish depths of the Internet that are invisible to regular search engines, mimic Google’s spike in Corona-themed discussions and posts. According to Digital Shadows, a cybersecurity agency, not all of this chatter is nefarious, yet there are still lawbreakers aiming to use the pandemic to their own advantages.Exploiting Vulnerabilities: With the majority of nations enforcing quarantine and social distancing policies, Internet usage has skyrocketed. The online world is now supporting millions of individuals using it for everything from classes to business to entertainment. Despite that, coronavirus, covid-19, and related terms like homemade hand sanitizer, are the highest-ranking terms on Google.Healthcare institutions such as the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommend preventive measures such as sanitizing hands and frequently used surfaces, wearing masks in public and staying indoors. Hence, the supply of certain products has far exceeded the demand, and disinfectants, N95 masks, and similar items remain in short supply.Cybercriminals have swiftly adapted to these new vulnerabilities. Malefactors send out phishing emails with enticing subject lines promising recipients access to commodities such as masks or hand sanitizer. Instead, the victim will find a link leading to a malicious website or a downloadable file that installs insidious malware on their devices.Remember that location is not a factor for digital predators, especially in times of a global crisis. Anyone can benefit from increased security measures and we should all do our utmost to report scams and fraud to the authoritiesPreying on the emotional response to the crisis to acquire sensitive information is another popular tactic among online offenders. Insurance fraud, calls or texts from supposed family members in distress, and fake charity causes, abound.Businesses are also falling prey to hackers manipulating weaknesses caused by the crisis. A large portion of the workforce is now remote, using insecure devices and networks to access company systems.Targeting Hospitals and Healthcare Employees: The more nefarious members of the online underworld go a step further by threatening healthcare institutions. As medical professionals around the world risk their lives battling the virus, hackers have no qualms compromising essential systems by sending ransomware.The end goal is to coerce overburdened institutions to pay up to restore access and avoid compromising patient care. These actions can result in unwarranted deaths— needless casualties added to the mounting statistics of those lost to the virus.Nonetheless, governments and security firms are taking a hardline stance towards transgressors that cross that line and jeopardize lives. Mikko Hypponen, the CEO of Finnish security firm F-ware, tweeted a warning to anyone menacing healthcare organizations: “…we will use all our resources to hunt you down.”The Chief Security Officer at Cybereason stated that hospital security employees are working tirelessly to improve and update systems to keep attackers out.Staying Safe Online:Now more than ever, taking precautions online is crucial for both private individuals, businesses, and the medical and academic institutions struggling to reduce the human toll of the virus. Although it is impossible to eliminate hackers from the online universe completely, it is feasible to lower the risk of attack through common-sense security measures.Stay vigilant against phishing emails. If the email or call is from an unknown source, pay extra attention to what is suggested or offered. Most of the times these “exclusive” opportunities are too good to be true. From cheap sanitation products and face masks to the “blood of covid-19 survivors”, coronavirus hoaxes are ubiquitous. Often times phishing emails are sent from compromised accounts so reach out to family and friends to double-check if a certain dodgy message is indeed sent by them. If not, report the email to your service provider to stop scammers in their tracks.Back up your files, especially during times of prolonged remote work. This mitigates your risk of suffering financial losses due to ransomware. If unfortunately, your device is locked from clicking covid-19 hoax links, having your files tucked away ahead of time means you could simply default your device.A VPN is another strategy worth implementing to defend your personal information. Investing in security can save thousands of rupees lost to tireless cybercriminals. Using a VPN secures your internet connection such that hackers will not be able to intercept your traffic or spy on you.Remember that location is not a factor for digital predators, especially in times of a global crisis. Anyone can benefit from increased security measures and we should all do our utmost to report scams and fraud to the authorities."
Sultan M Hali,Aspirations from China’s twin sessions,2020-05-22,"First hit by the pandemic, China shows the world how to handle it and its effectsThe much-awaited twin sessions or the two annual meetings, the first, the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), commenced on Thursday, 21 May. The second meeting, of the National People’s Congress (NPC), began a day later with Premier Li Keqiang’s work report. Premier Li’s report typically lays out annual economic targets and the policy framework to achieve those. This year it’s going to be a challenging task given an unprecedented economic crisis brought on by Covid-19. The economy has suffered its worst-ever contraction in the first quarter of 2020 compared to growth of 6.8 percent over a year ago. Although the worst of the country’s outbreak is hopefully over, a significant global demand slump will continue to undermine the recovery in the rest of the year.The “Two Session” will be a beginning for China to restore its economy and social order because despite being hit hard by the global pandemic covid-19, the steps that China took firstly, to contain the deadly virus; secondly, to insulate its own people from it; and thirdly, to reach out to the rest of the world, gave the Chinese reassurance in their own leadership, that during the “Two Sessions” the decisions taken will be pragmatic and far reaching.Expectations are high because the Communist Party of China will never put its people at risk. It will adopt carefully thought-out measures to protect them and the steps of opening up are necessary but will only be effective if the insulation is fool-proof. Schools, colleges, workplace and travel modes all have to be protected, and China has the capacity and will to ensure such measures.During a recent tour of China’s northern province of Shaanxi, President Xi Jinping instructed cadres to “turn the crisis into an opportunity.” It is such statesmanlike leadership that takes nations in crisis across the hump to overcome adversity. The performance of the Chinese government during the darkest period of the scourge of covid-19 was an example for the rest of the world. China did not demur from reaching out to other countries to share its experience, its expertise and its equipment to combat the deadly coronavirus.In the prevailing milieu, the Chinese President’s speech ushered a ray of hope in a world, where even the mightiest have been hard hit by the global pandemic but few have shown the magnanimity, benevolence and transparency displayed by China. Similarly, the steps taken during the twin sessions will not only usher relief from the deadly virus but hope to rebuild not only Chinese society but the entire world.The Chinese dream of taking the entire nation beyond the poverty line by 2021, the 100th anniversary of the CPC will not remain a pipe dream because the economy–built on a combination of manufacturing expertise, connectivity and first-class infrastructure, plus the world’s largest middle class of domestic consumers– was operating at 87 percent of typical output on May 12, according to the Trivium National Business Activity Index has survived the shocks and is ready to rebound. In April, though imports were down 14.2 percent, China’s exports were up 3.5 percent year on year, surpassing predictions largely because of medical products sent overseas.The WHO has been playing a role of leading and coordinating the global efforts in fighting covid-19, which is extremely important for whether humankind can defeat this common enemy of the entire world. Some countries, who suffer from myopic vision, firstly failed to perceive the threat from covid-19 despite warnings issued by the WHO. Now that these doubting Thomases are suffering the most, they have chopped funding to the WHO. The premier institution still has the support of China and Europe but the impediments put in its place by detractors provide China the unique opportunity to fill the vacuum and find its true potential.Xi Jinping, President of the People’s Republic of China, presented some very cogent comments, proposals and decisions at the Virtual Event of Opening of the 73rd World Health Assembly on 18 May 2020. His speech came at a very critical juncture of world events. More than 210 countries around the globe are suffering from the deadly effects of covid-19.Certain portions of the world have suffered from numerous pandemics before; the plague, Spanish flu, SARS, MERS, Ebola, AIDS among others, but covid-19 has struck the entire globe. Covid-19 was first reported in Wuhan China before it engulfed the entire world.China was treading on uncharted waters because nothing was known of this new pandemic but through trial and error and dedicated efforts, China controlled the onslaught courageously.The address of Xi Jinping at the WHA was bold and innovative. China has already shared its experiences, sent its medical teams and dispatched much needed masks, surgical gloves, protective gear, testing kits and even ventilators.While some world leaders have chosen to target the World Health Organization and even China to divert attention from their own mismanagement of the catastrophe, Xi Jinping did not enter into rhetoric or a blame game. Instead, he made some hard-core proposals on how to combat the scourge of coronavirus collectively, find a cure and a vaccine to prevent the spread of the disease.Besides recommending proposals, in his poignant speech, Xi Jinping announced tangible decisions like providing $2 billion over two years to help with the covid-19 response and with economic and social development in affected countries, especially developing countries. He declared that China will work with the UN to set up a global humanitarian response depot and hub in China, ensure the operation of anti-epidemic supply chains and foster “green corridors” for fast-track transportation and customs clearance. Xi Jinping announced that China will establish a cooperation mechanism for its hospitals to pair up with 30 African hospitals and accelerate the building of the Africa CDC headquarters to help the continent ramp up its disease preparedness and control capacity. The Chinese President promised that covid-19 vaccine development and deployment in China, when available, will be made a global public good. This will be China’s contribution to ensuring vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries. Perhaps the most profound decision was that China will work with other G20 members to implement the Debt Service Suspension Initiative for the poorest countries. China is also ready to work with the international community to bolster support for the hardest-hit countries under the greatest strain of debt service, so that they could tide over the current difficulties.The world is already reeling under the economic impact of the deadly virus. Poorer states are close to bankruptcy and the developed countries are still groping with modes of allaying the negative effects.In this gloomy perspective, President Xi’s announcement to delay the loan repyments of developing countries will be very welcome and provide them breathing space as well as renew their efforts to rebuild themselves.President Xi Jinping has demonstrated that he is a true statesman, who believes that mankind is a community with a shared future, by concluding that solidarity and cooperation is the most powerful weapon for defeating the virus.In the prevailing milieu, the Chinese President’s speech ushered a ray of hope in a world, where even the mightiest have been hard hit by the global pandemic but few have shown the magnanimity, benevolence and transparency displayed by China.Similarly, the steps taken during the twin sessions will not only usher relief from the deadly virus but hope to rebuild not only Chinese society but the entire world."
Web Desk,The worst is yet to come,2020-05-21,"The rush to reopen may harm the economy more than it helpsBy: Sahil Yar MuhammadThe novel corona virus and the disease it causes, covid-19, has affected the world on such a scale that it is not an exaggeration to say it has affected the social chains of people at the grass root level. Due to risk of infection, people are staying at home, governments are fearing a further increase in infection cases. They have imposed lockdowns which have ravaged the world economy, leading to a recession that has easily surpassed that of the 2008 financial crisis.The curve has begun to flatten and governments such as that of Italy, the USA and others are relaxing some restrictions to allow the economy to gasp for a breath of fresh air. The Pakistani government is also contemplating an ease in some restrictions which can see some businesses carrying out their activities although by following some Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).However, it is that reduction in the alertness level of the governments which will prove most detrimental to them. The flattening of the curve, or a reduction in the transmission of the virus, does not mean that it has begun to disappear or a cause for celebration, but it is at such a critical time that a government must not lower its guard and observe vigilance to not lose its gains.The second wave of any epidemic or pandemic is in most cases more deadly than the first, if one looks at the Spanish Flu, the Black Death, H1N1 Flu, Ebola, and SARS. The second wave of the Spanish Flu in 1918 caused significantly more deaths than the first one, the reason for the second wave being a relaxation in the restrictions.The second wave of the Black Death in the 1500s was far nastier than the first wave. The second wave of Ebola was due to end but the death of an 11-month-old girl in the Democratic Republic of Congo and a 26-year-old electrician said otherwise. The H1N1 Flu, which the Centre for Disease control (CDC) estimates took the lives of between 151,700 and 575,400 people, had a second wave more hellish than the first. While it is not by any means guaranteed that a second wave will happen but looking back at previous pandemics, a second wave is most likely.The governments must listen and believe in the voices of reason from the professionals who know what it is they are doing and not to the voices of buffoons like Donald Trump who believe the coronavirus is no more dangerous than a flu. The ultimate goal of every government must be to make sure the damage to life as well as the economy is as low as possible. Relaxing restrictions will help in the shortest term but will have devastating consequences over the longer term because the health experts and other professionals mean it in the truest sense when they say, “The worst is yet to come”It is the mistake of lowering their guard which will come back to haunt the governments relaxing the lockdowns in their territory, although the reasons for relaxing them are quite understandable, as they have frozen economic activity and put the livelihoods of countless people at risk, so a relaxation will provide them a breath of fresh air.It is unfortunate that the relaxation will also provide the pandemic with fresh air which will come at the ignorant population with an even greater force. The devastation which is yet to come will not be a love tap but a heavy blow to the gut which will not leave a bruise or two but a gaping wound. The economy will suffer more, people will suffer even more and the government best contemplate the option of slitting its own throat if this keeps up.The relaxation from the government of Pakistan has done less to allay the fears of experts. The population of Pakistan is not as averse to danger as those of many other countries, perhaps because of the recent troubled times as well as the illiteracy. It is evident from the utter ignorance of the people who do not obey instructions to limit chances of transmission, going to shopping malls in such numbers that it is hard to find a place to put your foot down. The lack of implementation of SOPs by traders and businesses does not do much in helping the cause, although they too are justified in their actions as most shops are only big enough to accommodate only a few people at a time. It is the responsibility of the citizens to obey the government but it is the responsibility of the government to create a suitable environment for its citizens.The government fails to understand that the suffering of the underprivileged sections of the population can be abated through economic packages for their households but once the people are infected, it takes a while for them to recover and they may in the most likely of cases infect others as well and with Pakistan’s health system as it is, the situation will be in simple words, ‘not good’. However, if the safety of the people is the government’s top priority as it should be, then introduce further relief packages for the most vulnerable sectors of the population, which will do much good to them and the country in the long run.Yes, steps to provide relief to the population will affect the economy, but what the government must understand is that the economy no matter how much it goes into recession can be put on track. It will take time to recover but it will recover nonetheless, as long as there is a desire, a passion, a stubborn mind to revitalize the economy. What good will revitalizing the economy do if there are no people to do it for?Instead of listening to rubbish, the governments must listen to the voice of experts, it will do much good. The voice of doctors and professionals have started to go hoarse from shouting too much about the dangers of relaxing the lockdown when the curve has just started to straighten, or in Pakistan’s rare case which has decided to relax the lockdown despite the corona curve steadily rising.Almost all health experts have expressed dread on what is an almost certain second wave. Dr. Ian Lipkin of the Columbia University’s Center for Infection and Immunity says, “We’re risking a backslide that will be intolerable”.Olivier Schwartz, head of the virus unit at France’s Pasteur Institute said, “There will be a second wave, but the problem is to which extent. Is it a small wave or a big wave? It’s too early to say”, and by the time it is just right to say, it will be too late to react.Josh Michaud, the associate director of global health policy with the Kaiser Family Foundation in Washington said, “If we relax these measures without having the proper health safeguards in place, we can expect more cases, and unfortunately, more deaths.”The governments must listen and believe in the voices of reason from the professionals who know what it is they are doing and not to the voices of buffoons like Donald Trump who believe the coronavirus is no more dangerous than a flu. The ultimate goal of every government must be to make sure the damage to life as well as the economy is as low as possible. Relaxing restrictions will help in the shortest term but will have devastating consequences over the longer term because the health experts and other professionals mean it in the truest sense when they say, “The worst is yet to come”."
Web Desk,Science and Fiction around COVID-19,2020-05-21,"Conspiracy theories have all been disprovedBy: Asmat Ullah GondalThe covid-19 outbreak unleashed prodigious public discourse about its origin and transmission. Several themes of discussion surfaced during this period since its outbreak. Many people subscribed to a religious interpretation and believed it was divine rage at humanity for its unforgivable sins. Others labeled it as a man-made virus, used by global powers to further their hegemony.For example, initially it was believed by many that it was a sagacious plan by the USA to reclaim its dying hegemony. The USA, allegedly, prepared the virus in laboratory and spread it to China to halt its economic growth; which is about to become world biggest economic power within a couple of years. Surprisingly, the Chinese Foreign Office also claimed that US soldiers served as a cause of the covid-19 outbreak. However, the indifferent and swift spread of the covid-19 pandemic across the globe neutralized these allegations.A few weeks later, the USA brought a counter claim and held China responsible for the outbreak with the malicious intent of dragging down her economic growth. US President Donald Trump kept on calling it a Chinese virus in number of his press briefings. Two Chinese laboratories in Wuhan have come under the spotlight in this regard.At a societal level in Pakistan there are different degrees and shades of conspiracy theorists. Many people believed that covid-19 is part of a Zionist agenda— to create the virus, in the first place, and then make vaccine to enrich them. Startlingly, a great deal of people turned a blind eye and deaf ears to the coronavirus pandemic and perceived it as just a mirage. In short, there are as many conspiracy theories as one can imagine. Although, time unfolds falsity of conspiracy theories and they disappear in oblivion, yet they continue unabated with mutations and take new forms and shades.Maintaining lockdowns for a long period at the cost of many daily wage earners is not a final solution to the current pandemic crisis. Freezing economic activities may mitigate viral transmission for a particular time, but its spillover effects will reduce many to destitution with poverty and food shortage. If stupidity prevails it will not only endanger the lives of a large number of people by chain infections, but also sweep Pakistan into vortex of poverty & economic retrogressionOn the contrary, science looks upon pandemics entirely from a different prism. Scientific theory goes through a long process of experiments before establishing a claim. Scientific theories are made after an empirical process. In the light of science, although the exact origin of viruses is uncertain, yet they have been part of nature since living cells first evolved. The universe is in a continuous process of creating viruses in multiple numbers since its beginning, and out of which many survive through the process of evolution. The origin of covid-19 is unraveled so far, but the majority of scientists are clear about the latter’s origin as a process of nature.Scientists are unanimous in rejecting the claim that covid-19 is a laboratory-engineered virus. For example, US microbiologist Kristian Andersen along with his team refuted such claims and said that the genetic data shows no signs of previously existing viruses. Moreover, if we hopscotch through history, it is a crystal clear fact that pandemics have ravaged humanity at intermittent periods. Take, for example plague— the Black Death— which caused approximately 75-200 million deaths. Likewise, Spanish flu played havoc with human lives and caused 17 to 50 million deaths, according to an estimate. Hence, the history of pandemics categorically refutes infantile claim of covid-19 being a man-made virus.Moreover, it is beyond the realm of doubt that for many decades human beings have been at war with the planet and, now planet is fighting back. The balance of nature theory holds that natural process remains in a state of equilibrium. When disequilibrium occurs, nature recaptures its original design by itself. Industrialization, urbanization and over-population have caused disequilibrium in the process of nature. Mankind has made environment unfriendly not just for himself, but also for other species— aquatic and subsoil. Global warming, famines, droughts, diseases and natural disasters of all kinds are the tools of nature to avenge and reclaim its original form. Human wit and sagacity subscribes to scientific wisdom and refutes unscientific claims eventually. In the light of this discussion wisdom demands that we should acknowledge that covid-19 is a reality and unsubscribe to conspiracy theories. We must nourish wisdom and starve stupidity & ignorance to save our lives from the scourge of this pandemic. There is no vaccine for covid-19 over the horizon. The World Health Organization has warned about a prolonged existence of covid-19 like AIDS.In this given situation people must learn to live with this pandemic until its vaccine is invented. Moreover, as a responsible citizenry the rules ought to be obeyed to keep covid-19 at bay. People should adhere to principles of social distancing and abandon flouting them. There is no other way around so far than adopting precautionary measures as a lifestyle to constrict the coronavirus. Since the WHO’s clear message that we have to live with coronavirus; governments across the world have realized that a lockdown is not a workable solution to combat this pandemic.Maintaining lockdowns for a long period at the cost of many daily wage earners is not a final solution to the current pandemic crisis. Freezing economic activities may mitigate viral transmission for a particular time, but its spillover effects will reduce many to destitution with poverty and food shortage. If stupidity prevails it will not only endanger the lives of a large number of people by chain infections, but also sweep Pakistan into vortex of poverty & economic retrogression.The writer can be reached at [email protected] and tweets @asmatgondal"
Web Desk,The coronavirus economics,2020-05-21,"Policies must be local, if the pandemic’s effects are to be mitigatedBy: Muhammad Armaghan FaisalOn average, a Pakistani makes around Rs 21,000 a month. This minute amount is viable to cause hardships for households across Pakistan, even without economic fallout. The coronavirus pandemic has caused an already fragile system to take a nosedive. The virus is not just bound to kill thousands and lay off millions of workers; the true aftershocks of this tremor are still immeasurable at such an early stage. But we can take a look at nations across the world and analyze their economic response to help the citizens of their country. This will allow us to come up with a strategy with the highest probability of success. One thing to note is that there is no perfect strategy; each strategy will involve some sacrifice, but some strategies are certainly better than others. The best strategy will involve lower interest rates, well-tailored fiscal policies on the local level, and some introspection.First, we can take a look at the USA, which has responded with a huge stimulus package to keep the economy running and maintain its competitive edge against China. The USA has already sent out $1,200 stimulus cheques to every citizen over the age of 16. Its Central Bank, known as the Federal Reserve Bank, has taken on an ambitious strategy to input money into the market. It has also temporarily reduced the Federal Funds rate to0. The Federal Funds Rate is the interest rate at which banks can take loans from other banks. The low rate means banks will not hesitate to take out loans from other banks since it would not cost them much in interest, thus stimulating the market.Since the coronavirus cases in the USA differ state to state, there is no one policy fit for all the 50 states. That is why a chunk of the fiscal policy has been left for the local and state governments to implement and execute, with the help of the federal government. These local fiscal policies would include tax benefits for small businesses, and favorable business loans, amid other various policies. The state of Pennsylvania, for example, is trying to set aside roughly $10 million worth of funds to help boost local volunteer organizations in fighting the virus.Pakistan will come out of this crisis stronger than ever if the important actions can be taken on time. These policy changes over a short period of time will allow the market watchers to collect data on how economic behaviour is influenced. This can be very effective in future and really help the government clamp down on price instability or the bottlenecks within the country that have been hindering the economy for decadesOne country that can be deemed similar to Pakistan outside of the subcontinent is Indonesia with its massive 268-million majority Muslim population. The World Bank has projected that Indonesia’s economic growth will slow down to 2.1 percent and millions could slip into poverty as the country tries to fight the virus. The Government of Indonesia has cut corporate taxes to 22 percent from the previous 25. The state budget deficit has also been eased to allow the states to borrow more if necessary. The government might also issue state bonds or Shariah sovereign bonds to reduce the money supply. If necessary, they can inject the money generated from the bonds back into the market. Over $5.4 billion worth of funds have been set aside to directly help the villages fight the virus.Pakistan has also responded rapidly to prevent its economic situation worsening. On 10th April, the State Bank started offering refinancing schemes to businesses throughout Pakistan. As the press release states, “The mark-up on the loans under this scheme will be up to 5%.” This can be very beneficial to those who can afford to take out loans but it is still a risky endeavour as the chances of businesses going bankrupt are already very high. On March 17, the SBP also reduced the ‘policy rate’ to 12.5 percent from 13.25 percent previously. Then it reduced it to 9 percent on April 16. According to Bloomberg, SBP has slashed rates the most so far compared to any other country in the world. One good thing to note is that there is a lot of room to maneuver, but the 9 percent is still pretty high to generate some serious economic activity, as most banks would not be willing to borrow at such a high rate. It is expected that this rate will continue to decline as the crisis continues. This should be done cautiously and slowly, preferably about 25 to 50 basis points at a time to hinder a panic in the market. Other measures were also taken such as doubling the period for rescheduling loans and concessional loans to hospitals in need.We must realize that Pakistan is a very diverse country, even in terms of its economic activity. The industrial economy of Sialkot is not the same as the agricultural economy of southern Punjab. The population distribution also varies greatly. So, the fiscal policies that are being implemented throughout Pakistan must be implemented at the local district level rather than at a national level. If an area is suffering from a rapid increase in coronavirus cases, then its local government should implement a policy that will help the local businesses, hospitals, and individuals ride the tide with the help of the provincial and the national government. In a beneficial strategy, the tax rates would also differ even within a single province, depending on how hard that particular area has been hit.With the increased community spread of the virus going on in densely populated areas, especially in major cities, an imminent and strict lockdown is necessary. But this does not require a lockdown in low-density areas such as villages and other rural areas around the country. That is why this decision should be given to the local governments. The workers in these areas are usually not interacting with each other as much as in crowded bazars and factories within a city. The harvest season is on the horizon and it is imperative that agricultural workers be allowed to work in their fields or graze their cattle if they must. While the urban economy is bound to suffer due to business closures, the rural economy should be allowed to flourish, as this can also help tackle the various food shortages around the country.The State Bank should pursue a quantitative easing policy by injecting money into the economy. This can be achieved by buying securities from the open market and it would help ease the spillover effects caused by different collapsing sectors. Now, this could cause inflation if the government decides to print money to achieve this. Controlled inflation for a short term would devalue the currency eventually. But that is what a fiat currency is for. It is a tool that allows a country to absorb economic shocks and stimulate the economy in the short run. Unfortunately, this tool has been needlessly used in the past by corrupt leaders to stimulate the economy just to win voters’ support. The coronavirus situation requires its use, but it should be utilized cautiously and only where it is needed.No doubt, Pakistan will come out of this crisis stronger than ever if the important actions can be taken on time. These policy changes over a short period of time will allow the market watchers to collect data on how economic behaviour is influenced. This can be very effective in future and really help the government clamp down on price instability or the bottlenecks within the country that have been hindering the economy for decades. Alarm bells should be going off in heads of policymakers, and even opportunistic businessmen, as the world tries to diversify its manufacturing capacity and moves away from China as a sole producer. Could the next destination be Pakistan?The writer can be reached at [email protected]"
Web Desk,The war on science and reason,2020-05-19,"A deep-seated culture of ignorance and denial continues to dominate the covid-19 discourseBy: Haris Ali VirkWatching the pictures of bustling bazaars and markets filled with shopping enthusiasts, I was reminded of what Carl Sagan, the great American astronomer and astrophysicist, feared years ago. We have built the modern world based on science and technology, yet nobody understands anything about them. He prophesied that this combustible mixture of ignorance and power, sooner or later, is going to blow up in our faces. Well, it has already lessened the chances of our survival, and continues to threaten the very existence of our planet.Ours is an arrogant attitude. It’s an attitude that wages war on science and reason. We know that our weather patterns are changing, pollution levels are mounting and droughts are on the rise. We know all this but we don’t really ‘believe’ in it. And this is why we won’t ask our government to introduce reforms and take urgent measures in order to reverse deforestation, conserve energy, promote renewable power, and punish industrial polluters. Last year, we saw a huge invasion of locusts in various regions of interior Sindh that destroyed hundreds of acres of crops and incurred hunger, food shortage, and loss of cattle. As usual, nobody took it seriously. It was conveniently dismissed as mere natural event which could not have been avoided.The story hasn’t been any different when it comes to how our people have responded to COVID-19. It has never really been perceived as an existential threat. Just go to any random street or shop around the corner of your neighborhood, you would listen to at least a dozen conspiracy theories, none of which would recognize there’s any danger. You would see them arguing that it’s all a part of some mysterious plot to overthrow the existing world order and that the Western powers are behind it. Some would blame the Chinese for their ‘dirty’ eating habits and assert with pride how we, the Muslims, are the world’s ‘cleanliest civilization’. Others would confidently conclude that Israel has unleashed the virus to distract the world while it conquers the remains of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. As if Israel really cares what the rest of the world thinks about its brutal occupation. Our pulpits, meanwhile, have been hurling abuse, literally, at the USA for conspiring against Islam and the Muslim world. They have been preaching how we don’t need to take any precautions because God will protect us anyway. But what if we die? Well, as the Almighty wills.We are at present living in a crucial moment in our history. This pandemic could bring about the end of organized human existence as we know it, and the threat we face is not external, but internal. We are not threatened by an intergalactic predator, but our own vanity and ignorance. It is our own actions that have brought us to this brink of catastropheAs for our politicians, their long-lost love for any kind of logical thinking is not unknown to anyone. The Prime Minister, who never gets tired of boasting about how much time he has spent in Europe, has absolutely no idea what he has been doing. This is a man who, since the beginning of this crisis, has just been struggling to understand and explain the difference between two terms: curfew and lockdown. That’s the best of his abilities. Each time he comes up on screen to address the nation, all he brings of value to the national discourse is some new form of confusion. Similarly, Bilawal Bhutto, the leader of the country’s most ‘liberal’ party, has already embarrassed himself last year when he gave his ‘expert opinion’ to explain the floods in Karachi and the rest of Sindh. The Shareef brothers too, of course, are no Wright Brothers who came up with the invention of airplanes. They are just as ignorant as the rest of the lot we have been gifted with.The problem, however, isn’t this simple. It goes far deeper. Our distrust of science has roots in the long history of imperialism. Since the onslaught of the Renaissance, followed by the Enlightenment and the Scientific Revolution, the West has established a monopoly over the field of science. Therefore, a common mind perceives all that is scientific to also be western. We are skeptic of the modern scientific methods because the colonial experience and the modern-day invasions of the Muslim countries have instilled a strong anti-Western sentiment in our hearts. But we have found ourselves in a strange dilemma: on the one hand, we renounce scientific answers to the myriad of challenges we face, and then, on the other hand, we are also envious of the Western model of progress and development. In the post 9/11 world, this dilemma has deepened further, and so has the nostalgia, in our collective unconscious, for the golden age of Islam.Instead of dealing with our fears and skepticism, the state has tried to depoliticize science over the years, and has always kept it at the margins. Never have we allowed scientific dialogue and engagement to become a part of the mainstream conversation. As much as the world has been turning towards scientific solutions for all kinds of crises, we have uniquely avoided all that. Never have I heard even the word ‘science’ in the electoral campaigns and manifestos, television shows and public debates. There is no culture of research and scientific investigation in our universities, and the state has no interest whatsoever to change its priorities and focus on education.The fact is we have not only been alienated from science but have developed a national pastime of attacking all kinds of scientific explanations of the natural world. We are that wretched nation which has disowned its most prolific scientist, a Nobel laureate, because he does not fulfill our criteria of who can be called a Pakistani. No wonder, we are headed towards a disaster. We have chosen a path which gave birth to the most brutal, totalitarian regimes of the 20th century. Nazi Germany and Mussolini’s Italy were as insane when it came to the question of science and rationality. Our collective attitude also matches the fanaticism of Franco’s Spain, which once reverberated with the slogan “Down with intelligence! Long live death!”We are at present living in a crucial moment in our history. This pandemic could bring about the end of organized human existence as we know it, and the threat we face is not external, but internal. We are not threatened by an intergalactic predator, but our own vanity and ignorance. It is our own actions that have brought us to this brink of catastrophe.The writer can can be reached at [email protected]"
Amjed Jaaved,India’s deceptive defence budget 2020-21,2020-05-19,"The Indian military doesn’t seem to know there’s a pandemicIndia’s 2020-21 Budget envisages a total outlay of Rs 30,42,230 crore. Out of this, Rs 3, 37,553 crore has been allocated for military (excluding military pensions). For military pensions, Rs. 1, 33,825 crore has been provided in Budget Estimates 2020-21. There is an increase of Rs 40,367.21 crore in the total military allocations (Rs 4, 71,378 crore) over 2019-20.The total military budget accounts for 15.49 percent of total expenditure for 2020-21. The allocation represents a growth of 9.37 per cent over Budget Estimates for 2019-20. Out of Rs 3, 37,553 crore allocated for 2020-21, Rs 2, 18,998 crore is for net revenue expenditure and Rs 1, 18,555 crore is for capital expenditure, which includes modernization-related expenditure.The ‘transparent’ military expenditure shows an increase of only 9.37 per cent. But, if we add to it concealed provisions the increase would balloon manifold. The concealed provisions include quasi-defence allocations like border and strategic roads, nuclear/space research, paramilitary forces like Border Security Force, Central Reserve Police Force, and so on. Besides there are public sector undertakings like dockyards, machine tool industries and Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited.Then, India unnoticeably increases her defence expenditure under Revised and Actual budget estimates. But the real expenditure in past years has been much greater than that shown. Previously, India increased its military outlays in revised and then actual estimates. Thus the actual military expenditure is much higher than the initial estimates, which are quoted in international media under a hypnotic spell.India does so to `lower’ its military budget as proportion of GNP. Thus India, as compared with its neighbours, gets a favourable image in The Military Balance, Jane’s Defense, and other international magazines.Any analysis of India’s military budget should be based on actual Demands for Grants coupled with Explanatory memoranda. The allocations concealed under civil ministries outlays should be ferreted out and added to military allocations. The successive increases in revised and then actual budget estimates should be taken into account. Showcased figures conceal actual allocationsThe Explanatory Memorandum to Demands for Grants, not generally available, throws light on India’s mega-purchases. They include carbines for the army, Advanced Jet Trainers, Airborne Warning and Control system, additional Mi-17 Helicopters, MiG-29 upgrade, Low-Level Transportable Radar, Integrated Air Command and Control System and Surveillance Radar Element for the air force. Weapon Locating Radar and T- 72 upgrade for the Army, Rafale fighters, and more.During his visit to India, US President Donald Trump offered to sell India $3 billion (per unit) Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) and Patriot Advanced Capability (PAC-3) missile defence systems as an alternative to the Russian S-400 system. India ditched Russia, from whom it had decided to purchase five S-400 systems for $5.4 billion. With tacit US support, India is getting tougher with China. There was a 73-day standoff on the Doklam plateau on the Sikkim border last year.At US prodding, India revised its maritime strategy in 2015 to “Ensuring Secure Seas”. The previous strategy was “Freedom to Use the Seas”. To implement the new strategy, India built the Chabahar port. India took up the development of the Sittwe Port in Myanmar as part of the Kaladan multi-modal transit transport project for building a multi-modal sea, river and road transport corridor for shipment of cargo from the eastern ports of India to Myanmar through Sittwe. India upgraded its existing listening post in northern Madagascar.India has obtained access to the US naval base in Diego Garcia, and to the French naval bases in Mayotte and Reunion, besides the Australian naval base in the Cocos. Robert Kaplan, in his book, Monsoon: The Indian Ocean and Future of American Power, argues that the geopolitics of the 21st century will hinge on the Indian Ocean. Its waters reach 28 countries which together account for 35 percent of the world’s population and 19 percent of its GDP. Sixty percent of the world’s oil shipments from the Gulf countries to China, Japan and other Asian countries pass through these waters which host 23 of the world’s busiest ports.Methyl isocyanates were being produced at the Union Carbide India when it exploded killing thousands of people. There were 27 factories producing products including Carbaryl through cyanates supplied by UCIL. Vizag Gas Leak also has military potential. Where does provision for CBW research appears in India’s military budgets?Colossal expenditure on conventional weapons by a nuclear power is not understood. Nuclear deterrence does not mean matching bomb for bomb. Nuclear victory would at best be pyrrhic.India is emerging as the US proxy against rising China, which is determined to surpass the USA in GDP by 2027. India is opposed to China’s Belt and Road Initiative. Besides, it uses its aid, trade and border contiguity to obstruct Chinese influence in Bhutan, Nepal, and Bangladesh.At India’s bidding, those countries toe the Indian line in SAARC and other international forums like G-20. In 2005, Washington expressed its intention to help India become a major world power in the 21st century.Henry Kissinger views Indian ambitions thus: ‘Just as the early American leaders developed in the Monroe Doctrine concept for America’s special role in the Western Hemisphere, so India has established in practice a special positioning the Indian Ocean region between East Indies and the horn of Africa. Like Britain with respect to Europe in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, India strives to prevent the emergence of a dominant power in this vast portion of the globe. Just as early American leaders did not seek approval of the countries of the Western Hemisphere with respect to the Monroe Doctrine, so Indian in the region of its special strategic interests conducts its policy on the basis of its own definition of a South Asian order’.Zbigniew Brzeszinski takes note of India’s ambition to rival China thus: ‘Indian strategies speak openly of greater India exercising a dominant position in an area ranging from Iran to Thailand. India is also position itself to control the Indian Ocean militarily, its naval and air power programs point clearly in that direction as do politically guided efforts to establish for Indi strong positions, with geostrategic implications in adjoining Bangladesh and Burma.’Any analysis of India’s military budget should be based on actual Demands for Grants coupled with Explanatory memoranda. The allocations concealed under civil ministries outlays should be ferreted out and added to military allocations. The successive increases in revised and then actual budget estimates should be taken into account. As a result of India’s rising military expenditures, Pakistan also increases her defence expenditure.And all this is happening while the world is focused on the covid-19 pandemic. But India merely uses this as cover!"
Malik Muhammad Ashraf,Pak-Iran relations,2020-05-19,"Relations were cordial until the RevolutionRecently an improvised explosive device (IED) hit a vehicle of the military personnel in Buleda (district Kech) Balochistan near the Pak-Iran border, killing one major of the Pakistan Army and five soldiers who were returning to their base after conducting a routine patrol in the area. The Balochistan Liberation Army, which has bases on the Iranian soil, claimed responsibility for the attack.It was in the backdrop of this regrettable incident that COAS Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa called Iran’s Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, Maj Gen Mohammad Bagheri, to express his concern over the attack by the militants and according to a press release of ISPR both of them resolved to enhance security measures on either side of the border. General Bajwa rightly told General Bagheri that Pakistan had started fencing the border but would require mutual cooperation to ensure border security and to stem smuggling activity which was also used by terrorists and narcotics traffickers to cover their movement.Unfortunately it was not for the first time that the militants based in Iran carried out an attack against Pakistani security personnel. A similar attack was carried out by the militants on 18 April 2019 at Buzi top on the coastal highway when militants wearing uniforms barricaded the road, stopped three or four buses travelling from Ormara to Gawadar and killed 14 people including 11 personnel of the Navy, Air Force and Coast Guards. Pakistan lodged a very strong protest with the Iranian government, saying that the intelligence reports regarding the bases of the militants in Iran and their activities were shared with the Iranian authorities but nothing has been done to stop the terrorists from carrying out their nefarious activities against security personnel of Pakistan.It was in the backdrop of the tense situation created by the Ormara incident that Prime Minister Imran Khan immediately paid a two-day visit to Iran and met its leaders. As a result of the mutual interaction the two countries agreed to set up a Joint Rapid Reaction Force to fight terrorism and guard the common border between the two countries, and vowed not to allow their territories to be used for terrorist activities. Relations between the two countries were under great stress following terrorist attacks on both sides of the frontier. It was then hoped that setting up of the joint force and fencing of the Pak-Iran border by Pakistan would help in preventing the recurrence of such incidents. In the context of bilateral relations, the two sides also resolved to enhance cooperation in a number of social and cultural domains besides expanding economic relations. But unfortunately the Baloch militants still find it convenient to carry out their terrorist acts against Pakistan using the Iranian territory, as is evident from this latest attack on the security personnel.Pakistan under the stewardship of Prime Minister Imran Khan is all out for recalibrating cordial relations with its neighbouring countries, particularly Iran, and playing a role of a facilitator in resolving the regional conflicts. It is hoped that Iran in the interest of the required bonhomie would see to it that the Baloch militants were no more able to use its soil for attacks against PakistanIt would perhaps be pertinent to have an insight into the history of relations between the two countries. In 1947 Iran was the first country to recognize Pakistan after its independence. The two countries were members of the Baghdad Pact known as CENTO, which was an alliance against the USSR during the Cold War era. They, along with Turkey, formed the Regional Cooperation for Development which later became a larger group known as Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO), when these were joined by the Central Asian republics and Afghanistan. The warmth and depth of ties between the two countries could be judged from the fact that during the 1965 war with India, Iran sided with Pakistan. It also helped in putting down the insurgency in Balochistan.However, the events of 1979, including the invasion of Afghanistan by the USSR and the revolution in Iran, drastically changed the situation in the region as well as within Pakistan which also affected relations between the two countries. Though Iran though opposed the Soviet invasion and joined hands with Pakistan in supporting the Afghan Jihad, it always looked askance at the growing influence of Saudi Arabia and the USA on Pakistan.During the conflict between the Taliban regime and the Northern Alliance in Afghanistan, while Pakistan supported the Taliban, Iran along with India assisted the latter. So Iran from an ally became an adversary of Pakistan competing for opposing goals in the regional context, straining relations between them. The consequent imposition of sanctions on Iran by the UN on the nuclear issue also limited the scope of trade relations between the two countries. The Iran-Pakistan-India (IPI) gas pipeline also became a casualty of tensions between the USA and Iran, and India withdrew from the project under US pressure. However, it is pertinent to mention that the successive regimes in Pakistan, except General Ziaul Haq’s, have always strived for cordial and brotherly relations with Iran.Pakistan rightly refused to be drawn into Saudi-Iranian conflict in Yemen, sectarian crisis in Bahrain and the diplomatic row between the two after the execution of a Shia religious scholar by Saudi Arabia. It rather preferred to play a mediatory role to lessen the tensions. This stance stemmed from the considered view that It was in Pakistan’s utmost interest to remain neutral in any conflict between Saudi Arabia and Iran.Prime Minister Imran Khan also played a mediatory role in defusing tensions between Iran and Saudi Arabia which had been brewing since the drone attack on oil facilities in Saudi Arabia on 20 September 2019. He paid visits to Iran and Saudi Arabia in October. Both Iran and Saudi Arabia welcomed the initiative. The Prime Minister himself acknowledged his mediatory role when he visited New York to attend the Un General Assembly session. Probably it was in recognition of Pakistan’s importance in the region and the efforts that Prime Minister Imran Khan was making for the regional peace that even US President Donald Trump asked him to help defuse tensions with Iran. Pakistan also expressed disapproval of the US decision to continue with sanctions against Iran after the onset of the coronavirus, urging the latter to take a humanitarian view of the situation.Having cordial relations with both Saudi Arabia and Iran is imperative for Pakistan to avoid any adverse backlash on the domestic front as well as for boosting the efforts for a sustained economic development which undoubtedly depends on prevalence of peace within the country as well as in the region.Iran is our immediate neighbour and has been a close ally. It can also help Pakistan in diluting the energy crisis by providing oil, electricity and gas through the IP gas pipeline in case it becomes feasible to construct it. We also need the cooperation of Iran in bringing peace and security to the region, particularly in resolving the conflict in Afghanistan and elimination of the scourge of terrorism for the collective benefit of the countries of the region. The economic and political interests of both Iran and Pakistan are inextricably linked and their geographical proximity and common religion provide a solid base for protecting and strengthening those interests. They both need each other to realize that objective.Pakistan under the stewardship of Prime Minister Imran Khan is all out for recalibrating cordial relations with its neighbouring countries, particularly Iran, and playing a role of a facilitator in resolving the regional conflicts. It is hoped that Iran in the interest of the required bonhomie would see to it that the Baloch militants were no more able to use its soil for attacks against Pakistan."
Hasan Aftab Saeed,On education,2020-05-18,"There’s a difference between respect and blind agreementThere could be many definitions of being educated, but one that often goes unappreciated is the ability to differ with the views of one’s elders and loved ones. Respect is a good thing, but it must be earned. It is rather easy to include in the definition of ‘respecting’ one’s parents agreeing with all their opinions, and constructing one’s worldview (religion, politics, history, social behaviour, etc) identical to theirs. Of course, respect has absolutely nothing to do with that sort of thing. Neither has love. In fact, sometimes love would necessitate telling your loved ones (even if they are your elders) what they need to listen to, and not what they want to hear. It goes without saying that intellectual honesty behoves one to analyse ‘givens’ before accepting them. Can one really be educated without being intellectually honest?This perception that the youth is always rebellious and non-conforming to the ways of the older generation is a myth. Especially in the sub-continent, there is no rebellion to speak of – barring the resolve of many among the younger generation not to take their studies seriously. Being in the profession that he is, the author knows it for a fact that far too many engineering students are studying engineering because they ‘respected’ their parents too much to tell them that their heart wasn’t in engineering. (This is followed by four years of ‘learning’ something they have no interest in, followed in turn by trying to figure out what to do instead.) So much for the rebellious youth! Ask any youngster his views on something, and chances are that he will parrot the views of his father, mother, or his maulvi sahib. Now I am not saying those views are necessarily faulty. They could be well-founded too. The point is, either way one needs to analyse them in the first place to be able to have any sort of confidence in their soundness. Without that, it’s the conviction of a man who doesn’t know what he is talking about, but who has heard something so many times (in fact that is the only thing he has ever heard on the subject) that he can’t imagine things could possibly be any different.A man is educated in direct proportion to his ability to review the worldview passed on from his ancestors, subjecting it to impartial scrutiny before adopting it as his own philosophy or otherwise. How many of us answer to this description? Any wonder then, if ‘education’ continually fails to bring the change one would expect it to?It is fashionable to blame the less-than-perfect historical worldview of fellow countrymen on the fairy tales found in their Pakistan Studies textbooks. This is partially correct; and there must be a conscious effort to banish as many fairy tales from the schoolbooks as is humanly possible. That said, this diagnosis overestimates how seriously the average student takes his textbooks. The physics texts are free of fairy tales, and yet this fact rarely stops students from believing in horoscopes and the like. So, to blame the textbooks alone for brainwashing our students regarding their history would be to ignore the huge elephant in the room: namely, the influence of the stories repeated by the older generation swallowed wholesale by the ‘rebellious’ youth.What is true of historical views is also true of religious opinions. Sure, there are any number of things wrong with the Islamic Studies textbooks too, but whoever takes those texts seriously? Most people have the same religious views as their elders had before them, without ever having examined them to see if they are indeed well-founded. The Quran, on many occasions, mentions people whose sole argument for believing in a concept or indulging in some practice is the fact that they found their ancestors before them doing the same. The Quran clearly points out that that is by no means a valid argument. The precious few that bother to put some effort in understanding the Quran pass over such passages thinking that they are addressed to non-Muslims. And yet, the reason why they believe most of the things that they do is precisely the same: they are merely following their parents. They fail to realize that it’s about a man’s attitude, not about which camp he swears allegiance to, or which label he wears. If an argument is no good, then it is no good – whether it comes from a non-Muslim or a Muslim has no bearing on the matter. What’s bad for the goose can’t be good for the gander (and vice versa). Of course, most Muslims aren’t even interested in understanding the contents of the Quran, so they can’t even be accused of going against its teachings.A major part of education is the capability to tell good and bad arguments apart. Education cannot be measured by how many years somebody has spent in school; nor can it be gauged from the long string of alphabets after a person’s name on his business card. A man is educated in direct proportion to his ability to review the worldview passed on from his ancestors, subjecting it to impartial scrutiny before adopting it as his own philosophy or otherwise. How many of us answer to this description? Any wonder then, if ‘education’ continually fails to bring the change one would expect it to?"
Shah Nawaz Mohal,Of Charlie Brown and Snoopy,2020-05-18,"Why never-ending disappointments should always fail to defeat usWe all are Charlie Brown. We all bungle up our perfect moments, lose our once-in-a-lifetime opportunity at becoming who we dreamed of becoming and fail at what we do best when it is most needed. We have hearts of gold yet behave like angry, possessed apes from time to time. We all have seen our moment of greatness flicker, knew it’ll never ever return, yet we live and laugh and continue our march forward. Nothing comes close to a lived life which is inundated with disappointments, flooded by failures, harrowed by reversals, and minced by tragic moments.To live is to never, ever, ever be defeated by our disappointments. To live is to never, ever, ever allow our inadequacies to get the better of ourselves. To live is to err. And err we must. Live we must.Those who know who Charlie Brown is, howdy there, folks. For those who don’t, Charlie Brown is the central character of Peanuts, a comic strip by Charles M Schulz that ran for decades. Peanuts was published in leisure pages of newspapers, sold in book form, and syndicated all over the world. Charlie Brown is the protagonist of Peanuts who went through all of what you read above and it is his dog Snoopy who basks in the limelight way more than his owner.We all are Snoopy. Snoopy, since he is a dog, can’t and never talks. He acts. He acts to help Charlie Brown. He acts to entertain everyone around. He acts on his dreams and delusions. He acts to make the world a better place, most of the time. At other times, just to get a laugh, he plays the role of a misanthrope whose triumph lies in ruining all that is human about us mortals.The ultimate lesson one gets, day in and day out, from Peanuts is that we have to celebrate the good days, weather the bad ones, and lumber along the wrong ones. Life, be it in the small world of Peanuts or in our humongous world of flesh and blood, puts a demand on all of us.Snoopy, the dog, lives in a world he dreamed up. He also has an alter ego called The Flying Ace whose nemesis is Red Baron. Snoopy’s Fifi is the ‘love of his life’. The all wise, suave Snoopy of ours is a complete romantic fool when it comes to Fifi. A situation not at all alien to most of us. The all rational, all sensible, all knowing, all reasonable us, falling for someone so badly that the world thinks we have lost our marbles.Every single character in Peanuts represents us, either in part or in entirety. There is Shroeder, the Beethoven enthusiast who personifies the singular importance of music in our life. Then there is Pigpen, who is the stinky, socially castrated loner wanting to become friends, but is avoided by all and sundry.Then there is Lucy, a narcissistic, utterly deplorable lass whose sole mission in life is to make others feel bad about themselves so that she can get a kick out of it. Then there is Linus, Charlie Brown’s best friend and trusted advisor, telling Charlie to brace himself, shed his insecurities and inadequacies so that he can be what he is- a caring, loving kid who tries his level best to help all his fellows as best and as much as he can.We meet Peppermint Petty, every now and then, who adores Charlie Brown and is a happy-go-lucky girl who breezes through life with no serious qualms or concerns. Also, there is Marcie, the intellectual, well-read nerd who is the perpetual underdog and since she has neither control over nor confidence in herself, she is subject to the dictates, fancies and directions of Peppermint Petty. The list of other characters occupying the Peanuts world is long, this column is short. So, let us jump to Woodstock.Woodstock, last but not least, is Snoopy’s trusted friend-cum-wingman and The Flying Ace’s- Snoopy’s alter ego-mechanic. Snoopy and Woodstock try to make sense of every act, utterance and deed of kids who inhabit the world of Peanuts. A world without adults, a world where everyone has their own idiosyncrasies, their own good day, wrong days and bad days. A world where love, envy, rejection, novelty, curiosity, delusion, narcissism and other human emotions coexist not only between characters but within a single character as well.What Peanuts is about is not a group of kids, a dog and a bird waddling through life and giving us a glimpse at their shenanigans. It goes deeper. It goes way deeper into the psyche of our species. If Charlie Brown has an endless list of insecurities and inadequacies turning him into a standing object of ridicule, he is also the one who lives through them and exists despite them. If Lucy is narcissism incarnate, in her self-obsession we see a glimpse of our egoistic selves. If Snoopy is the wisest dog you’ve ever met, you must accept him along with his alter ego. The ultimate lesson one gets, day in and day out, from Peanuts is that we have to celebrate the good days, weather the bad ones, and lumber along the wrong ones. Life, be it in the small world of Peanuts or in our humongous world of flesh and blood, puts a demand on all of us. And that is to live it to the fullest. From beginning till end, life is more than a story we tell ourselves, it is also more sacred than a miracle. Also, it is impossibly complex for us to handle its absurdity and our minds can’t fathom its depth.To conclude, even losers can be lovable, remember the adorable Charlie Brown. And if you think a dog can’t fly, think of The Flying Ace, and his Fifi."
Ihsaan Afzal Khan,The woes of the private sector borrower,2020-05-18,"SMEs must have easier access to creditPolicies for small and mid-size enterprises (SMEs) have consistently been decided by its literal definition. They have been judged as not having any sway on employment and the economy of a nation. Its literal definition demarcates businesses by a certain threshold of revenues or the number of employees. Every country has its own definition of what comprises a small and mid-level enterprises (SME). In Pakistan, businesses that employ up to 250 people and generate sales up to Rs 250 million are considered SMEs. The tally of employees and sale generation is low as contrast with large scale industry. While these figures appear to be low when figured independently, the sector represents the foundation of an economy at a cumulative level, as SMEs constitute nearly 90% of all the enterprises in Pakistan and have a 40% share of the country’s annual GDP according to SMEDA. These stats show that SMEs drive our economy. Despite this, an increasing number of issues for the proletariat results from government policies, and just one such concern is that oversupplied labor restricted by inconvenient business policies has resulted in huge rates of unemployment. We can easily curb the increasing numbers by developing policies that will encourage ease of doing business for any sector.We don’t lack talent but effective policies are definitely our Achilles heel. Innovation and creativity in business enterprises diminish the institutional voids and hence contribute largely in advancement of society. Innovative personalities ought to be upheld and supported by both financial and management means. Unlike large enterprises in the formal sector, the SME sector is constrained mainly by financial issues, especially in terms of access to capital which is vital for any business to grow. Its progress has additionally been confined by numerous structural issues. Economic impact of SMEs makes it imperative that there must be a proper mechanism through which it may get support on priority basis in various elements of business including technical advancement, financial and human resource training & development.In Pakistan, large industries are the main beneficiaries of either financial credit systems or ease of doing business, while the SME sector is totally neglected in both ways. When it comes to borrowing from commercial Banks, SME’s have a stiff competitor in the Government of Pakistan which is the single largest borrower and the favorite of Pakistani banks, a situation known as ‘crowding out’ in textbooks. Banks don’t bother much with thousands of enterprises and individuals in need for financial credit risking too much paperwork and potential default when they have the Government of Pakistan, a risk-free borrower securing good profits for the Bottom line of their financial statements. Massive Government borrowing from commercial banks takes the incentive away from Banks lending to private sector. Also, financial credit is restricted to collateralized lending in Pakistan, creating a challenge to new startups and SMEs who do not own land to provide as collateral as most SME’s run their factories and offices on rent. Project financing is still nonexistent whereas many sectors are simply not on the banks’ radar for lending. High interest rates since the PTI’s Government has also reduced Private sector borrowing, falling to Rs 693 billion in FY 2018-19 from Rs 775 billion in 2017-18 whereas in the first half of current fiscal year it had dropped 77 percent to Rs 117.38 billion. In these declining numbers the percentage borrowed by SME’s will be minuscule.Furthermore, there are hardly any recognized credit bureaus which profile individual credit scores keeping in view various financial aspects to provide a basis for banks to avoid willful defaulters. Credit information Bureau Act 2015 was passed in parliament to allow establishment of private credit bureaus to promote financial inclusion but on ground the results are negligible.The banking sector mostly blames the weak and incompetent judicial system of the country as a major reason for feeling insecure in lending to the SME sector and new startups. Such cases can take years before concluding, and there are more than 10,000 cases already pending in banking courts. The uncertainty associated with defaults on behalf of the borrowers to lengthy legal procedure and delayed justice from courts leads to banks avoiding SME sector as a priority sector for lending finance. Furthermore, there are hardly any recognized credit bureaus which profile individual credit scores keeping in view various financial aspects to provide a basis for banks to avoid willful defaulters. Credit information Bureau Act 2015 was passed in parliament to allow establishment of private credit bureaus to promote financial inclusion but on ground the results are negligible. In developed countries a good credit rating has become a necessity for each individual to maintain a normal lifestyle and something he /she proactively take care of, whereas in Pakistan this is yet to become a norm.The SME Sector of Pakistan is relying on low and out of date technology. This is evident from the fact that 30-40% of harvested crops have been lost in Pakistan due to low level of technology in storage and transportation equipment. Moreover, textile sector in Pakistan desperately needs energy and technology to compete with Bangladesh, India and China. For instance, majority of the power looms and auto looms that are decades old and discarded by most nations are still running in Pakistan. They should be replaced by advanced looms like air-jet and waterjet. This journey of replacing old technology and filling the missing link to efficient management can be expedited if the banking sector supports the financial needs through lending on easier terms and conditions.What is missing is that Pakistani banks are only lending to a select few sectors which are already established. Majority of the SME and new startups are starved for financial credit and thus their growth has stagnated. Until issues of corruption, incompetence and delays are not resolved in the judicial setup, banks will not be willing to bet on genuine talent and entrepreneurship of the SME sector. Private sector lending is a driver for growth and is an indicator of expansion of enterprises, but sadly, so far under the PTI government, this indicator has tremendously worsened. A lot of packages for industries have been announced by it during the COVID -19 crisis, but practically these are again for only those who are already a borrower and will not be including majority of the SME sector which is in high need of financial credit."
Humayun Gauhar,The wall has two sides,2020-05-17,"China raises…I am talking of the Great Wall of China, one of the wonders of the world. What happens on either side is not static. It keeps changing. Before the economic downturn caused by the coronavirus, the world order or the status quo was on the other side outside China and the USA was the undisputed hegemon or sole superpower. Now after the coronavirus, which first started on that side of the Wall, things are changing and rather more rapidly than one had imagined. Our job as no superpower, but as a minion of the USA, is still very difficult. We have to watch and wait and be patient to see what kind of new status quo emerges and what our place should be in it. Patience is one of the most important Chinese virtues and they think and plan generations in advance, not expecting to see the end result for many years. Former Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai caught the essence of this thinking when asked what he thought of the French Revolution and replied, “It’s too early to tell.”Do not for a second imagine that a hegemon will lose its primacy easily. The USA is very powerful financially and militarily and it has got global institutions dancing to the tune of the dollar, which leads to the world dancing to the tune of the dollar. The dollar will not go down without kicking and screaming and its kicks can be very hard and screams very loud. But back to Pakistan. We have to be careful that whilst not upsetting the USA to the point where it retaliates against us, we should slowly and imperceptibly try and become a part of the new status quo, the new world order with “Chinese characteristics.” So caution and care should be the order of the day because we have to remember how much our external debt is and if they decide to squeeze our lemon so to speak, very little juice will come out and Pakistan will just become a squeezed lemon.But we are also already very heavily beholden to China as well as heavily indebted to it. Don’t forget that while the USA and its agencies have given us a great deal of loans, China has only given us money for infrastructure. Now with the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, what China is giving us is loans mostly from private Chinese banks, which will add to our debt stock. But now there could be a way around it with China now pushing the Yuan to the detriment of the US dollar. Lets’ see what happens. As Zhou Enlai said, “It is too early to tell.”A lady friend of mine wrote from France after reading my last article, that Pakistan has already sold its soul to China. She said, “While I agree that Pakistanis certainly have the knowhow and should have pride in ‘Made in Pakistan,’ the country sold its soul to China decades ago. China owns Pakistan– its ports, dams, roads etc. And China has flooded Pakistan with cheap merchandise… Pakistan is not the only victim here; many poorer countries have suffered the same fate and sacrificed their national dignity for ‘Made in China.’ Africa is another example they exploit, offer to build infrastructure etc and governments think so many foreigners will energize economies. But the Chinese soon bring in their families who open shops, undercut the local merchants by offering cheap ‘Made in China’ goods, destroying the national fabric of society. The well thought out plan to world domination.”I wrote back that I didn’t totally disagree with her but I don’t totally agree either. The West seems to have a phobia about China’s advance and spread. We have had a large Chinese diaspora in Pakistan since 1949. Many were cobblers, dentists and restaurateurs and later a few beauty salons. “And shop owners…” she replied. “And in Paris and NYC they own the manicure/pedicure trade.”There is nothing alarming about this. It is natural to ply your trade. That doesn’t mean that these countries have sold their soul to China. It is just that we find it peculiar that there are so many Chinese shops and restaurants all over the place. We have been to many Western cities and found South Asian restaurants everywhere (and not very good ones, by the way.) London and America’s hospitals are very dependent on Pakistani and Indian doctors and Filipina nurses but they haven’t sold their soul to these countries.My worry is that the new hegemon will eventually expect us to change our behaviour according to their way of doing things just as the British did. We have to prevent China from creating Pakistanis who are Chinese in every respect except for the colour of their skins. In that, for example, the China-Pakistan trade corridor will play a very important role. In fact, it is this belt-road initiative of China’s that is going to be one of the pivots of the new world order and Chinese hegemony. But it does not need to be a bad or harmful element of the new world order. If Pakistan’s goods and the goods of other countries can be exported east and west via Pakistan along the old Silk Road and thereafter even beyond, what could the problem possibly be? If Pakistanis switch to chicken corn soup instead of tea, we would actually save a lot of money because our chicken and corn are indigenous while our tea is imported. You see you have to think out of the box.Coincidentally, as I had written last week, there has been a fillip to the ‘Made in Pakistan’ concept where Pakistan is one of five countries that has been asked to make a vaccine out of remdesivir. There is nothing innovative here because remdesivir has been around for a long time, but at least it has been recognised that Pakistani pharmaceutical companies have the ability and wherewithal to make an anti coronavirus vaccine by the millions. If nothing else, we could make more than enough money out of this which could defray our costs and losses fighting this virus. This is just a start and you don’t know where it will lead. The point is, always try and find the silver lining in the darkest of clouds."
Web Desk,How will COVID-19 define our world?,2020-05-17,"The world changes irrevocablyBy: Noor AftabPandemics among other calamities have re-shaped the core of faith, politics and economic structure of societies for millennia. Fear grips nations across the world as the death toll rises on an exponential basis, and much of the global population remains under lockdown. Our generation may be more fortunate than its predecessors. Living in the digital age, many are in a better position to face these shutdowns given their heavy dependence on technology.Few things can be said with certainty nowadays, but in spite of technology, we are not past such disasters. In a war-ridden world increasingly divided along ethno-nationalist lines, no one anticipated such an outbreak.Infectious diseases may prove to be as big or perhaps a greater risk for millions of lives rather than wars in the coming age. Ordinary capitalist logic dictates no one cares, the corporate sector only responds to market signals. Short-term profit goals often absolve actors of responsibility for long-term consequences. “The invisible hand” has abandoned its most loyal followers, highlighting a need to revisit the free market doctrine.According to Bill Gates, endemics like Ebola should have served as early indications and pushed authorities to prepare. Institutions like WHO are struggling to maintain their credibility as the international body is equipped to monitor, not prepare for, these pandemics.The pandemic is rewriting international relations, as countries turn their attention inward and struggle to save citizens and their economies.Our future depends on today’s decisions we make today. Should any country choose nationalistic isolation over internationalism? Nationalism may sentence Mankind to virtual extinction.Cooperation is a must to eliminate the virus. Accurate disclosure of information is absolutely crucial. Such updates would ensure that countries restrict travelling accordingly and test incoming travellers from affected regions. Exchange of medical equipment, medication and trained personnel is also necessary. International and regional organizations like the UN and EU have to step up efforts.Responses are determining many political fates. Trump’s frustration regarding his suffering popularity is pretty obvious. For others, it proved a blessing. The relatively low number of positive cases in India is proving a boon for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whose popularity suffered from the mass protests against the Citizenship Act.Will this pandemic accelerate the shift of global dominance from West to East? Some are saying China has already won. This isn’t so much a battle of democracy versus dictatorships, but efficient governance and the level of public trust in governments. The “West” as a brand has suffered a severe blow while East Asian countries are serving as a model for the world.Some of the biggest success stories came from China and South Korea. And this would due to surveillance technology. Mobile applications were used to track citizens’ movement, and even their body temperatures.Years ago, such technology may only have been deemed suitable for tracing criminals. One of the biggest future compromises is the right to privacy, a battle the common man was already losing. There is no escaping the emergence of big governments worldwide even in liberal democracies.Likes nations, individuals practicing social distancing are looking inwards for answers. While scientists all over the world strive to develop a viable treatment, people are encouraged to strengthen their inner selves, boost their immune systems and maintain good mental health.We may emerge soon, but how will we deal with other looming dangers that are emerging because of efforts hitherto to destroy the planet? Humanity has attempted to tame and conquer Nature. With the effects of climate change now observable everywhere, the credibility of humanity’s invincibility has come under serious question.This virus serves as a quick reminder that nature can catch up easily. Microbes can wreak unimaginable havoc. Other man-made disasters are yet to unfold. Climate change is not just a threat anymore; it is a reality that cannot be ignored. Self-serving profiteers in fossil fuel industries and enabling political leadership need to be held accountable.Going “back to normal” does not make sense because things were not normal as they were. The emergency mode is difficult to maintain, as people are not scared to see their loved ones suffer immediately because of climate change compared to the fear around the coronavirus. But there will be a lot of suffering unless preparations are made. Neo-liberal capitalist dogma will fail to save us from impending disaster.We must reevaluate our relationship with nature. If we do not change the way we behave with other living beings like animals, we will continue to face similar crises.Many have asserted that Religion, as we know it, is in grave danger as many places of worship have been deserted. But at times like this that even those usually disconnected from God, find solace in prayer.The onset of Corona has accelerated the digital revolution. The digital economy is thriving whereas traditional businesses are suffering. Wherever possible, working from home may become a norm even convenient, like for working mothers.Unfortunately, not many will escape the inevitable economic crunch. Millions worldwide may be left unemployed. Not everyone can work from home, given poor Internet facilities and the lack of proper privacy at home. Distance learning can also never replace a college experience.While countries are worried about delaying opening economies to avoid the crippling after-effects, some adjustments will have to be made to restart businesses. Organizations are coming up with different solutions such as allotting days for specific employees to come to work to comply with social distancing norms. Countries that experienced the first wave are experiencing a second, are operating on a circuit breaker model; something the rest may have to follow until a medical breakthrough.How will human interaction change? What when the lockdowns end? The pandemic has already changed us. There may be a new normal. It may become second nature to avoid shaking hands or hugging loved ones. Sanitation and hygiene standards will become stricter.Online communication has already seen an unprecedented spike. Reconnecting with acquaintances and distant family members, who are experiencing the same dilemma as them, seems to provide comfort to many.Gratitude towards other people is growing as new heroes emerge in times of hardship. A common enemy is forcing people across the world to unite and look past their differences.Our future depends on today’s decisions we make today. Should any country choose nationalistic isolation over internationalism? Nationalism may sentence Mankind to virtual extinction.What the world needs right now is responsible leadership that understands that a decision in one place directly affects the other end of the globe. Humanity will do a great service to itself in developing a symbiotic relationship with Nature in order to survive."
Syed Kaswar Gardezi,Honour or disgrace?,2020-05-17,"So long as they are outside a city, honour killings don’t get attentionDecades of progress have brought about tremendous changes in our society. The independence movement culminated in Partition and a new journey began thereafter. The journey to progress as a society. Marred by different timelines and events, Pakistan has stumbled its way towards the feeble democracy that it is today, or at least claims to be.From the days when granting basic education to women was looked down upon to the day of electing the first Muslim female head of government, Pakistan has somewhat improved as we would like to believe. Women have been granted a number of rights which were previously unheard of. They have been allocated representation in the legislature, included in our civil service and accepted into various other professions. But if we were to pause for a moment and reminisce, have these rights been granted to the women as a whole or only in select urban centres? A careful analysis would, unfortunately, tilt towards the latter. While some women enjoy positions of power in major cities of Pakistan, the others residing in the rural and the far flung areas continue to be killed in the name of honour.Countless voices have been raised to highlight the menace of honour killing so much so that special laws have also been enacted to cater to this predicament. However, a cumulative assessment of its continued prevalence would perturb the moral conscience of any honourable man. Every passing day, women are subjected to inhumane treatment in the name of honour by those bound to them with blood. Merely upon suspicion of something wrong according to their standards, a man can easily end a life in order to satisfy their polluted idea of honour.Morality and our religion teaches us to be kind to our daughters, not murder them to protect our self-created ideas of honour. This isn’t honour but solely a barrel full of disgrace which these men bring upon themselves the moment they strike. If we were to care more about facing the Creator in the Hereafter as opposed to facing members of our locality would we actually understand the difference between honour and disgraceDespite the enactment of laws and attempts to create awareness, we have failed to curb the menace of honour killing. Reportedly, two girls were killed in the name of honour in a border area of North Waziristan after a video of theirs went viral on social media. Apparently, the male family members had been pressured by the locals to kill the girls in order to restore their honour. According to some local reports, the honour of the family had remained intact after the video was leaked however, some “honourable” members of society posted live videos on social media inciting the family to kill the teenaged girls.While social media may be an empowering tool for the voiceless, our country, as it does everything else finds ways to use it negatively. Without even a semblance of grace, people continue to spread sensitive and sometimes controversial pictures/videos of women from their society without realizing the repercussions of such acts. Had the video not been widely circulated, those poor girls would still be alive. People would be against the idea of social media restrictions but do such acts not mandate such restrictions? Can the people be allowed to spread hate, resulting in the merciless killings of others, using their right of free speech through social media? This isn’t the first feather into the social media’s killing hat; a couple of years ago Qandeel Baloch met the same fate owing to her outspoken presence on social media, which struck the conscience of her brother who killed her cowardlily, in her sleep. The man did not even have the courage to kill her when she was awake and yet, claimed to be a soldier of his family’s honour.In 2019 alone, Sindh witnessed 109 cases of honour killing according to official police reports. 109 lives cut short owing to the senseless patriarchy prevalent in our country. Another common trend in honour killing is murdering couples marrying of their own free choice. Which provision of the morality code is violated when two individuals seek to lawfully enter into wedlock and live according to societal as well as Islamic standards? Neither our religion nor our laws prohibits marriage out of free will and yet, the flag-bearers of honour think otherwise.These men are afraid of facing the society pursuant to a stain on their honor and are willing to spill blood for such honour’s stake and, yet, continue to usurp the inheritance rights of their women and have no fear in facing their Creator. What a remarkably subjective approach towards being honourable. Honour killing does not reflect even the slightest form of honour. In fact, it is the most disgraceful and cowardly act that a man can ever commit. Quite often, these men are not around to fulfill their parental duties in training and ensuring the upbringing of their daughters according to their standards of honour. However, when an undesirable event takes place, they are more than willing to step in and end the lives of the very same daughters. It stems out of the inbreeded insecurities not only in certain men, but in the society at large. It is our duty as a nation to declare war against such insecurities and curb this menace.The mainstream media hasn’t even picked up the fate of those two girls who faced the brunt of barbarism at the hands of their own. As long as it was away from the major cities, the media couldn’t care less, the people couldn’t be bothered and the government couldn’t find the time to fit in the two ill-fated souls. It is not the barbarians behind honour killing itself but also we, the people, who fail to raise a voice loud enough to make an impact. Condolences would pour in upon the death of a Bollywood celebrity and yet, nobody would even frown, let alone shed a tear, for the poor soul whose life has been cut short by the very hands she considered her own.Morality and our religion teaches us to be kind to our daughters, not murder them to protect our self-created ideas of honour. This isn’t honour but solely a barrel full of disgrace which these men bring upon themselves the moment they strike. If we were to care more about facing the Creator in the Hereafter as opposed to facing members of our locality would we actually understand the difference between honour and disgrace."
Arif Nizami,Passing the buck,2020-05-17,"Anomalies of the 10th NFCInstead of whining about the eighteenth amendment the federal government should set its own house in order. Even before the pandemic, the economy was in dire straits. Now it will take a herculean effort even to set the ball rolling.Amidst the scourge of exponentially spreading coronavirus, the president has found the time to announce the constitution of the tenth National Finance Commission (NFC). This was perhaps a constitutional obligation.In recent weeks the eighteenth amendment- the fount of devolution and additional provincial autonomy under the 1973 constitution- is being portrayed as the mother of all evils. The federal government’s spokesmen blame the amendment for preventing the federal government to evolve a seamless approach on how to tackle the pandemic.Another myth that has perhaps been deliberately created is that thanks to the consensual amendment, somehow the federal government does not have enough resources to meet our ever-increasing defence needs. Even the military leadership has been complaining about the amendments in close meetings.Prime Minister Imran Khan has endorsed this notion hook, line and sinker. It suits his perennial narrative of blaming alleged or real malfeasance of past governments for his own failures and shortcomings. To be fair the past government as well as the present failed to achieve the revenue targets stipulated in the seventh NFC Award.For example, the tax to GDP ratio was to be increased by at least 1 percent every year to meet additional expenses and defray the loss to the centre owing to increased share of the provinces under the award.The government has tried to take the easy way out. It knows that tinkering with the eighteenth amendment is not possible in the absence of having the necessary two-thirds majority in the parliament to amend the constitution.The constitution can only be amended through consensual politics. But in the backdrop of the present trust deficit between the PTI government and the opposition, this is too much to ask for.Hence the relatively easy route of constituting the 10th National Finance Commission (NFC) has been adopted. However, its composition and TORs (terms of reference) are ominous. For example, for the first time, amidst the list of discussions, a new subject has been added under which the Centre wants provinces to be burdened with additional fiscal responsibilities.Under the new NFC a formula is to be evolved to, “explore ways to reduce losses of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and agreeing on a mechanism for sharing these losses between the federal government and the provincial governments.”This is a classic case of the federal government conveniently passing the buck to the provinces for its own incompetence. If the Centre has consistently failed to raise revenue through taxes why should the provinces pay for this?Similarly, successive federal governments consistently failed to privatize loss making enterprises like PIA, Railways and the Steel Mills (amongst others). This costs the exchequer a whopping Rs5 billion rupees a year. Why should the provinces be made to pay?SOEs have been haemorrhaging the exchequer for decades. But no government worth its salt- under pressure from labour unions and vested interests amongst the bureaucracy- were able to privatize them.Under the seventh NFC award, by virtue of giving a bigger pie to the provinces, the Centre was mandated to increase its revenues. Increasing the tax to GDP by at least one per cent a year seemed quite doable.But it did not happen. The tax to GDP ratio that was around 9 per cent at that time obstinately remains the same. Had it increased as envisaged, it should have been 19 per cent by now.According to conservative estimates this would have added at least 4.4 trillion rupees a year to the federal kitty. Along with the present 4 trillion this would have been more than sufficient to meet its needs after giving the provinces their due share.Our successive federal governments simply lacked the will to increase taxation or to decrease their burgeoning expenses. The PML-N government believed in lower taxes. In fact, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif was in favour of a flat tax of 10 percent.The CPEC (China Pakistan Economic Corridor) was a boon for the Sharif government as it enabled them to borrow relatively cheap money to be spent on grandiose infrastructure projects while managing 5.8 per cent GDP growth.Now, with the pandemic further pummelling an already battered economy, we are looking at a negative growth during the next financial year.The nub of the problem is neither the NFC award nor the eighteenth amendment but failure of successive governments to increase the size of the economic pie.Instead of whining about the eighteenth amendment the federal government should set its own house in order. Even before the pandemic, the economy was in dire straits. Now it will take a herculean effort even to set the ball rolling.The share of the provinces cannot be reduced from its present 57.5 per cent under the constitution. Previously this was 50 percent.According to a study, the resource impact on the federal government owing to the NFC award is less than one per cent. Perhaps the only way out is to build a consensus on a workable economic accord with all stakeholders including the military leadership instead of chasing mirages.The Sindh government has rejected composition of the NFC declaring it as unconstitutional. In a letter to the prime minister the chief minister Murad Ali Shah stating that the advisor on finance cannot head the Commission under the constitution.Shah, like his colleague senator Raza Rabbani, is right. Shaukat Tarin chaired the seventh NFC commission as finance minister during the past PPP government in 2009.While being interviewed on my television news program, Tarin told me that like Hafeez Sheikh, he too was advisor on finance to the then prime minister Yousaf Raza Gilani. In order to head the commission, he was elected as a senator in order to become federal minister for finance.Unfortunately, the federal government despite having so many legal eagles on its payroll is not privy to sound legal advice. The very composition of the Commission being brought into question makes it controversial even before it has set up shop.The inclusion of Senator Javed Jabbar as member of the tenth NFC from Balochistan has also been criticised. His lack of qualification and experience in finance, it is being argued, make him unsuitable for the post.Independent member of the National Assembly from Gwadar-Lasbela Mohammad Aslam Bhootani bemoaned how CM Balochistan could not find a single expert from a population of 10.3 million to plead Balochistan’s case in the NFC.Hafeez Sheikh should be appointed as finance minister in order to remove this constitutional anomaly. For that the government will have to manage a Senate seat for him. Otherwise the composition of the Commission is bound to be challenged in the apex court."
Dr Ahmed Kiani,The USA: a complexed nation,2020-05-17,"The USA today is a self-proclaimed global ruler, a superpower of thuggery, thievery, butchery, and deceit. The destructive nature of the US establishment is deep-rooted far into its medulla oblongata. The country came into existence through this conduct, where the low-life society-rejected hunger-riddled criminals, shipped off from different impoverished quarters of Europe, first massacred the local native Indians in their holy lands of refuge and then looted the entire world by conspiring on the basis of cruel governance, revenge, and lies, to portray themselves as saviours and to accumulate enormous wealth. To understand this, one must comprehend the inferiority complexes afflicting this relatively new and war-hungry nation.The USA, in comparison to the ruling dynasties of the past and present, is nothing more than an infant. All other dynasties ruled for centuries by way of conquests and, over time, they somewhat perfected the rules of governance, models of operation, and orders of the system. The bratty brash behaviour of the US establishment is analogous to the new-money Emiratis with their lavish spending, gold Rolexes, and expensive art pieces, as well as the minimal mental development of its populace and over-reliance on expatriate professionals. The only difference being that the USA pinches the wealth with blatant disregard to international council consent and captures overseas natural resources on false pretenses, a trait of an inebriate mobster with a pistol; and by ominous passport conversions of desperately needed intellect. This bourgeois mindset is the US immigrant establishment’s most deep-seated insecurity. Hence, they lie not because it is in their interest but because it is in their nature to be treacherous, malevolent, and vile.Before WWI, America was non-existent in the global stage as the country was deeply entrenched in its nomadic warfare of the Wild West of gun-slinging hillbillies, bog-Irish mobsters, guinea godfathers, kraut kapos wanderers, cubiche drug-runners, peckerwood racists, war-riddled gooks, deprived Apaches, whiskey-bootlegging cowboys, and whitey slave-masters. A mash-up of such felonious characters in mass migration to a continent forms the roots of the grand US society of today. This is precisely why the USA has always been at war since its inception. Even during WWII, had it not been for the British and the Soviet war efforts, the Americans on their own would have been slaughtered on the beaches of Normandy much before nearing Berlin. Factually, the USA has never won the military side, but only the hyperbolic statements and jingoistic propaganda side, of any war fought outside its territory. The dynamics of killing helpless Native Indians as opposed to battle-hardened Afghan Mujahedeen and Iraqi rebel forces is different. This is precisely why Zalmay Khalilzad is now desperately fishing for regional support to broker the US exit from the region.Americans are oblivious to the ground realities of the nations they wage wars against. They excite the media machinery with White House press conferences, fake news, Hollywood screenplays, and unintelligible intelligence reports based on wild assumptions to justify their actions. Phrases like ‘axis of evil’, ‘WMDs’, ‘trade center bombers’, ‘Islamic terrorism’, ‘threats to the American people’, and so on, are synonymous with keeping the public in constant fear of death. Even the supposedly democratically elected Presidents are puppets in the hands of the establishment. On the face of it, they exude confidence as saviours of humanity and realms, but actually, they cover up their heinous war crimes and theft of foreign assets. These conjuring tricks of the so-called Big Brother are a globally-spread organized crime syndicate, which amasses affluence while projecting fear. The US establishment’s veto in the UN Security Council resolution on the global truce in wars during the covid-19 pandemic is a testament to their prowling and confrontational behaviour.What the US establishment does not fathom is that alike to the ruling dynasties in history, there is an ultimate end to any rise. Even after centuries of despotic self-rule and absorption of communist, Marxist, socialist, and capitalistic ideologies, these states still disintegrated. So how will the USA keep its unification of states alive when the USSR could not? By holding on to the Sixth and pleading the Fifth Amendment of the founding fathers’ constitution? The only exception being the Zionist state of Israel, whose sole existence came into effect when the Ashkenazi and Sephardi Jewish lobbies flaunted billions in the face of the Senators and Congressman in Washington. So, what friends does the US establishment have? Sadly, none. Countries bow to or trade with the USA because of its large consumer base or fear of its burgled-cash-built military arsenal. But even these conditions only go so far. Covid-19 has shown the world that even if you are a rich, healthy narcissist, your belongings cannot save you. Therefore, the blame on China for the virus is political face-saving for the upcoming elections. The enormous Chinese debts will still have to be paid back, and the hyped military action against China will never happen. In the worst-case scenario, Chinese retaliation will be enough to make the USA disunited and stateless.The US establishment habitually treats every problem, local or global, as a Hollywood movie with extreme emotion and an Armageddon situation, which only action hero Bruce Willis can solve by the ultimate sacrifice of blowing himself up for the greater good. This mantra applies to every aspect of US life, be it baseball, or natural disasters. The commercial and capitalistic prospects are never lost in any translation, and the braggadocio’s siren is at maximum volume. A living testament is the WTC plane strike, where US lives were sadly lost, and the US establishment’s wrath in response was barbaric and unfathomable. This biblical liberator has never fallen short in inciting hate, overthrowing governments, blackmailing or corrupting officials, targeting kilfourth lings through privately-hired mercenaries such as Academi, a.k.a Blackwater, lobbying media for underhanded scheming and running proxy wars in other countries.The establishment’s boasting of the USA’s being the world’s best country, and a model, is far from true. Globally, America is 28th in literacy, 38th in life expectancy, 33rd in infant mortality, fourth in median household income, the labour force and exports, 27th in healthcare, 45th in business potential and 15th in quality of life but it’s the 1st in the number of incarcerated citizens per capita and in defense funding. Even the US covid-19 death count has exposed the weaknesses of the country. This only justifies the argument that the the US mindset has been criminal over the years. So, it was never the greatest, but always a complex-riddled haggis of a nation.This bogus brawny attitude of the US establishment is its own worst enemy with the White House compromised more internally than Russia ever could. It is a wailing prayer of the global community that the Americans would grow out of their insecurities and maintain sanity for the sake of universal peace. As the bible says “Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall” (16:18)."
Raoof Hasan,Polemics around the pandemic,2020-05-17,"“When we least expect it, life sets us a challenge to test our courage and willingness to change. At such a moment, there is no point in pretending that nothing has happened, or in saying that we are not yet ready. The challenge will not wait. Life does not look back.”Paulo CoelhoIn the garb of covid-19, nature has set us a formidable challenge not only to face, but to overcome and learn from. Gauging the way we have conducted ourselves in the last couple of months, serious questions have arisen whether we are really up to defeating the scourge. There are varied apprehensions expressed with regard to our inability to understand the enormity of the challenge and live by a pragmatic strategy to overcome it without any proviso, without any exception.There was a phase of uncertainty preceding the softening of the lockdown. Since then, we have seen people flouting the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) with relish. This is equally applicable to those on both sides of the counter: the ones who are selling the merchandise and those who are the buyers. When I questioned the vendors about not observing the basic requirements, I received nothing but shameless smiles. The worst part is that, even the customers present at a given premises, did not join me in forcing the shopkeepers to observe the minimum mandatory precautions like wearing the masks and gloves. And, by the way, they were all educated people, fully aware of the procedures to follow in these challenging times.What must be strictly discouraged is the effort to construct polemics around the pandemic. This is no time to score petty political points. Going in divergent directions will only complicate matters and, in the end, no one party would be able to stamp its victory as there would be far too many dead to count. This is a time to come together with a singular purpose of defeating the scourge: with unity, discipline and determination Leaving behind a shining trail, or the dread of counting the deadIn the absence of the local government, the entire responsibility for ensuring observance of the SOPs rests with the district administration. They are nowhere to be seen. Even when one was able to register a complaint, even pointing out a place where SOPs were not being observed, there was virtually no response. It is as if they had forfeited their responsibility by leaving people at the mercy of their own preferences.The virus is deadly, but the combined irresponsible and unworthy attitude of the people and the administration has only made it deadlier. People seem not to care and the district authorities refuse to let a deadly situation puncture their traditional arrogance. But, on social media, they never tire of boasting endlessly how efficiently they are extending help to fight the pestilence. It is a strange country where people are celebrated for committing murder.Living through the crisis, one sees little indication of any change in the fatalistic attitude that grips all echelons of society. The dominant narrative which is being promoted is that we cannot fight this pandemic. So, we should submit before it and raise our hands in prayer that it may pass quickly. Nothing could be more illogical and defeatist than this abject surrender.Beyond the pandemic, if we ever get there, one would have little recollection of the pain and suffering that hundreds of thousands of families endured who lost their dear ones to the scourge. The big question being debated concerns the prospect whether we are going to be any different once we have passed the crisis, or will we persist in our errant behaviour? Some say there would be no alternative to bringing about a fundamental change in our conduct, but there are others who claim that a change is not forthcoming and people would continue to indulge their penchant as they have always done.There is another dimension to the crisis. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has warned that we may have to get used to living with Corona as it is likely to become endemic. In that event, how could we persist with our self-destructive behaviour which has wrecked our environment and the habitat around us?It may be worthwhile to go over the past pandemics and see whether those had cultivated any long-term change in human behaviour. Numerous plagues, yellow fever epidemics, polio epidemics, multiple flu epidemics, Ebola, and such other afflictions have impacted the world through centuries. The fear, by and large, persisted only during the currency of the epidemics, not after they had passed. Such has been the state of human nature. What makes us think that it may be any different this time around?One reason which may spur people to think is that this pandemic is contagious. It spreads by human contact with lethal consequences. If one were to live with it, as has been warned by the WHO, it may ultimately trigger some change in human behaviour. But, the chances are that, with time, they will again lapse into a fatalistic domain, leaving much to the inevitability of things happening in certain ways which would be construed as beyond human control.There are effects of a strict lockdown strategy which generate unbearable consequences. A lockdown over a prolonged period of time, which may be an ideal solution to tide over the crisis, will inevitably lead to isolation, poverty, hunger and death, thus making it untenable. This is exactly what has been happening in the world where hundreds of thousands of people have been marching on the roads demanding the lifting of the lockdown. Many governments have already ceded to the demand.The strategy that appears to have worked the best is the smart lockdown, allowing people enough space to carry on with their lives under strict observance of the SOPs. Those countries where people have shown conscionable sensitivity to the demands of the situation have fared better than others. Pakistan is not such a country. People here have continued to indulge their natural penchant, kicking the SOPs all over the place. The lack of interest and the wherewithal of the administration have made things worse and everyone who steps out, even with his full security gear, runs the risk of catching the contagion simply because others are not taking the necessary precautions.This is a difficult situation and the government’s options are limited. It has to try and create a balance between the need to live a normal life and the necessity of doing so by observing certain protocols. In the event this does not happen, which unfortunately has been the case in the past weeks, there is little that the government can do except to go for a strict lockdown again, more specifically in areas which have either reported extensive infections, or which are found contravening the basic essential protocols.However, what must be strictly discouraged is the effort to construct polemics around the pandemic. This is no time to score petty political points. Going in divergent directions will only complicate matters and, in the end, no one party would be able to stamp its victory as there would be far too many dead to count. This is a time to come together with a singular purpose of defeating the scourge: with unity, discipline and determination.It is in times of such crises that the character of a nation stands forth. Unfortunately, through these initial phases of the pandemic, we have exhibited a palpable lack of discipline and utter insensitivity to the safety of our fellow citizens, thus rendering ourselves undeserving of any special consideration. If, eventually, the government is not left with an option other than a strict lockdown, people will have no one to blame except themselves."
The Horizontal Column,"Thank you, Corona",2020-05-16,"Corona bonds and replacing supply chainsRarely in recent history has our planet witnessed a phenomenon that has so swiftly affected the lives of almost every single individual. Corona has wrecked economies, destroyed livelihoods, thrust social isolation upon the world and draped pervasive insecurities regardless of color, age, religion or monetary statusesYet every calamity brings along unique sets of opportunities and it is imperative for policymakers to identify them at the earliest and respond with measures even faster. In the short-term, Pakistan is in a semi-lockdown phase, offices are somewhat closed, congregations somewhat banned and non-essential retailers requested to remain somewhat closed. The result of this ‘somewhatism’ is yet to be seen but its measures on a medium to long-term phase would determine the future of our economy and courtesy of the covid-19-causing bat, Pakistan is in a position to kickstart its manufacturing sector provided it pivots fast for the post-corona world. Let me explain how.Oil has plummeted to a low with future contracts trading at a level unseen in history, suggesting that traders expect the demand suppression due to the coronavirus to persist in the near future. Further exacerating the oil crisis is the Saudi-Russian ego war that may have seen some respite due to the impending oil storage crises, but since both countries are ruled by by strong-men who bother less about the short-term national interests than the public perceptions of their tenacious muscularity, the oil skirmishes between the countries seems far from over. All this means that even Barclays and Goldman Sachs are forecasting a $30-per-barrel world for more than just a few months, which luckily for Pakistan translates into a significant saving in import bills for at least the next year. The decline in import bills means a shrunken trade deficit as over 70 percent of its petro-requirements are met through imports. However, as of now, despite the fact that crude oil prices have shrunk from over $60 in December 2019 to below $30 dollars per barrel, the government has passed on a mere 13 percent cut in prices. Pakistan already stands to improve its balance of payments by about $3 dollars even after compensating for the expected downturn in remittances. Passing on the entirety of the price fall would help the domestic industries bring down their cost of production and become more competitive on the world stage. Lower prices also leads to increase in consumption and researchers at PIDE, Islamabad had calculated that for every 1 percent additional consumption of oil, our GDP stands to gain an uptick of almost 4percent%. Therefore, passing the fruits of the situation on to the consumers remains vital to fire up business activity.The UN database on FDI reflects that in since 2001, cross border manufacturing investments in industries referred to as medium-skill-intensive such as industrial machinery, electronics, chemicals and so on, have been about 10 times more than the capital flow in low-skill industries such as garments, footwear and toys. Pakistan with its seventh largest pool of engineers and tech graduates in the world, available at bargain prices, is at an ideal point to harness the prevailing business sentimentThe second immediate step for the government should be to issue investments bonds, aesthetically titled Corona Bonds. Economic measures require capital and our historical approach in times of needs have been charity-driven relief funds, which have ultimately never accounted for anything more than some good puns and jests. Be it Nawaz’s qarz-utaro-mulk-sanwaro scheme for loan repayment or the former CJ’s Dam-Fund, the result has only been a PR disaster for the state institutions. A much better policy is to specifically target and engage the diaspora by issuance of Corona bonds, conceptually similar to the war bonds that were once popular among the Western nations during times of conflict. They were securities issued to finance military operations and expenditures. Corona is no less than a war except that the guns have been replaced with masks and soldiers with paramedics.In order to finance any measures, funds need to be raised. Ensuring the security of capital and a decent return on investment for a five-to-10-year period is a prudent method to engage the overseas Pakistanis and utilize their love for the homeland. Enlisting the citizens in this war requires a well-messaged clear roadmap for the disbursement of funds. Corona-era is an ideal time to effectively communicate an economic message and instill nationalistic fervour among its citizens, especially ones living abroad who are emotionally at a point where they can be driven to pay their dues for the nation. This would not only help to prepare for the economic battle but would also lead to de-militarization of patriotism and introduction of community crowd-sourcing while ensuring security of capital.With fiscal breathing space and a replenished financial war chest, the third step for Pakistan is the most important. The coronavirus has exposed the overdependence of supply chains on China. Manufacturers who had once moved their factories to China to take advantage of cheap labour and lower tariffs on exports are beginning to look for other countries that offer similar business advantages. With a significant chunk of the supply chain in retail totally dependent on China, this outbreak will dramatically accelerate the manufacturing exodus from our neighbor since business sentiment across the board has got a reality check about the perils of Chinese hegemony over the supply chains. This need to diversify production locations presents an ideal opportunity for Pakistan to exhibit itself as an alternative. The key here is to target the middle-skilled industries for the supply chain development as opposed to the conventional policy wisdom of facilitating low-skill production. The UN database on FDI reflects that in since 2001, cross border manufacturing investments in industries referred to as medium-skill-intensive such as industrial machinery, electronics, chemicals and so on, have been about 10 times more than the capital flow in low-skill industries such as garments, footwear and toys. Pakistan with its seventh largest pool of engineers and tech graduates in the world, available at bargain prices, is at an ideal point to harness the prevailing business sentiment. There is of course much to be written on the specifics of the plans but for now let’s just thank the coronavirus for bringing it to such a point.The writer can be reached at [email protected]"
Muhammad Javed,Kashmir under Indian Colonialism,2020-05-16,"The Hiindutva agenda is going full steam aheadOn August 5, 2019, the existing Hindu nationalist government of India, led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), revoked Indian-Occupied Kashmir’s autonomous status and territorial sovereignty, which were maintained in accordance with Articles 370 and 35-A of the Indian Constitution. The region was downgraded and split into two union territories: Jammu and Kashmir, which will have a legislature; and Ladakh, which will be ruled directly by New Delhi without a legislature of its own.In the lead-up to the move, India sent thousands of additional troops to IOK, imposed a crippling curfew, had Kashmiri leaders placed under house arrest, and severed internet connections, mobile phone lines and even land lines, casting Kashmir into an information black hole. As India has abrogated the land protection clause, a plan for extensive colonialist dispossession of Kashmiri Muslims through land purchases by Indians, looks foreseeable. Many critics said this move could also radically change the demographic composition of the disputed region itself, and some have cautioned that it may resemble Israeli settlements in the West Bank.Prior to this move, India has drafted a project in 2015 aiming to build accommodations for thousands of Hindus residing in different parts of India, in Indian-Occupied Kashmir. Indians wanted to resolve the Kashmir problem on their own terms, to bring outsiders to settle in Kashmir that will turn Kashmiris into minorities in their own homes. The prevailing mentality in the BJP’s current government about the demographic transformation in the Kashmir Valley is evident from the statements of their diplomats or politicians. Ram Madhav, the national secretary general of the Bharatiya Janat Party (BJP), said in July last year that his Hindu nationalist party had pledged to help return some 200,000-300,000 Hindu Pandits who had fled the Kashmir Valley after the armed revolt started in 1989. Similarly, in November the India consul general in New York called for the ‘Israeli model’ in Kashmir. At a private event in New York City, Sandeep Chakravorty, while addressing Kashmiri Hindus and Indian nationals advocated that India would build settlements modelled after Israel for the return of the Hindu population to Kashmir. He asserted “If the Israeli people can do it, we can also do it.”India has had colonialist designs on Jammu and Kashmir since 1947 but after abrogation of special status last year, the process of Indian colonialism has been accelerated by the BJP’s nationalist government. India is attacking on the diverse cultural fabric of the Jammu and Kashmir region and wants to impose the Indian cultural ethos by destroying identity of Kashmiri cultureThr Modi government, with the motives to change the demography of Indian-Occupied Kashmir further pushed its “Hindutva” agenda by issuing new domicile rules at the end of March, under which an Indian citizen who has resided in occupied Jammu and Kashmir for 15 years, or has studied for a period of seven years and appeared in Class 10th/12th examination, or who is registered as a migrant by the Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner (Migrants) will be deemed to be a domicilee. This law will certainly lead to cultural loss and will shake the Kashmiri legacy and age-old ethos. By giving thousands of non-resident families resident rights and domicile status, the demographic situation of Indian-Occupied Kashmir will surely change significantly. It will have great consequences for the native population, and for their cultural ethos. Kashmiri culture is certainly rich, but not enough strong to repel the foreign inroads. Eventually Kashmiris will witness a cultural shock as the dominant foreign culture will dominate the Kashmiri culture.Colonialism is defined as “the control of one power over a dependent area or people.” This happens when one nation suppresses another, conquering its population and exploiting it, often imposing its own language and cultural values upon its people. India has had colonialist designs on Jammu and Kashmir since 1947 but after abrogation of special status last year, the process of Indian colonialism has been accelerated by the BJP’s nationalist government. India is attacking on the diverse cultural fabric of the Jammu and Kashmir region and wants to impose the Indian cultural ethos by destroying identity of Kashmiri culture. Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) national secretary, Tarun Chugh said that now Hindi will be the first and official language of the state. “The best thing is that now Urdu will no longer be the first and official language of the state. Hindi will be the first and official language of the state,” Chugh said on October 30. However, the grip of Urdu has been remaining strong in the Valley as the religious scriptures are written in Urdu and all official records land, revenue, courts, and even FIRs, are scripted in Urdu. In addition, to distort the history of Jammu and Kashmir and to bring Hindutva influences to school education, the BJP Government decided to “revise” the curriculum in schools in occupied Jammu and Kashmir and the Ladakh region. In pursuance of this, the Jammu and Kashmir Board of School Education (BOSE) has decided in January this year to modify social science books from Class 6 to Class 10 in accordance with the new developments in the Indian-Occupied Kashmir.The name of radio stations in Indian-Occupied Kashmir changed as the radio station of Jammu was renamed as All India Radio, Jammu and Radio stations of Srinagar and Leh were also renamed as All India Radio, Srinagar and All India Radio, Leh respectively. Furthermore, in March the City Chowk, Jammu, was renamed Bharat Mata Chowk’ and the Kachi Chawni Chowk Atal Bihari Vajpayee Chowk. In the meantime, the Chenani-Nashri tunnel that links Kashmir with Jammu was renamed in October after Bharatiya Jana Sangh founder Shyama Prasad Mukherjee who is also regarded as the founder of the BJP. The Jammu Municipal Corporation (JMC) also passed resolutions to rename the Jammu Airport and the Jammu University after Hindu Dogra monarchs Maharaja Hari Singh and Maharaja Gulab Singh, respectively."
The Horizontal Column,Liberty and lockdown,2020-05-16,"Legal bases and covid-19In modern politics, liberty is the state of being free within society from oppressive restrictions imposed by authority on one’s way of life, behaviour, or political views. Sometimes liberty is differentiated from freedom by using the word “freedom” primarily, if not exclusively, to mean the ability to do as one wills and what one has the power to do; and using the word “liberty” to mean the absence of arbitrary restraints, taking into account the rights of all involved. In this sense, the exercise of liberty is subject to capability and limited by the rights of others.Thus liberty entails the responsible use of freedom under the rule of law without depriving anyone else of their freedom. Freedom is more broad in that it represents a total lack of restraint or the unrestrained ability to fulfil one’s desires. In present the world is reeling from the covid-19 crisis and the vulnerable segments of our society are the most at risk. Today, however, we are facing an unprecedented situation: By your presence alone, you can threaten the wellbeing of another human being. .Although the Indian Constitution guarantees the right to life and liberty under Article 21. But never before have these fundamental rights been treated as antithetical to each other. But they are today. To preserve life, in its real, actual and most basic sense, we are ready to give up liberty. The more liberty we surrender, the higher the likelihood that we preserve the right to life.As on account of covid-19, the world enters various phases of lockdowns, various analysts are trying to find a legal basis of the lockdowns and other legal measures undertaken by governments to fight the coronavirus. In every country, including India. There is confusion between “government advice” and measures that have the force of law. Some countries such as the United Kingdom (UK) and Singapore have hastily passed legislation to facilitate the collective surrender of the right to move freely and to enforce it through law enforcement authorities. However, despite the enactment in the UK, there have been many instances of confusion between legally enforceable restrictions, and “advice”, even among law enforcement officials. In India, two laws have been used to tackle the virus: The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, a two-page relic from our British colonial past that arms the State to put in place temporary measures, which the public needs to follow, to prevent the outbreak of diseases. Anyone disobeying the Epidemic Diseases Act can be penalised under the all-purpose, all-weather Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which prescribes a punishment of imprisonment for up to six months, or a fine up to 1,000, or both. The second is the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The pandemic is a “disaster” under the wide definition of the Act. However, in its design, the Act is structured to address natural calamities. To secure compliance of directives issued under this Act, broad unspecific provisions are relied upon. For instance, the guidelines issued on April 15 by the Home Ministry under the Act include a slew of directives such as wearing masks at workplaces.We now seem to be part of a global consensus supporting the necessity to trade off one right to preserve another. In India, it is the poor that have disproportionately borne the burden of this. A trade implies receiving something in return for what you forfeit. Did the poor participate in a trade at all? The right to life has been interpreted by the Supreme Court to include the right to live with dignity. Yet, we failed to provide a life of dignity during lockdown to our most economically vulnerable peopleLikewise, Brazil’s lockdown aimed at stopping the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic was imposed on March 21 in Niteroi, Brazil. Rio de Janeiro’s state government imposed restrictions to public transport. Bus lines and trains are closed, ferries and subway are running at a limited capacity. Apart from the prohibition on spitting, the violation of which entails a fine, specific punishments for other violations are not indicated. Any other violation would fall under Section 51 of the Act, which prescribes a maximum punishment of imprisonment for a year or a fine. This increases to two years, if the violation results in loss of lives or imminent danger. The notification issued by the home ministry also cites the trusty old Section 188. No existing law is designed to address the coronavirus pandemic. So repurposing outdated legislation, or using legislation not designed for this purpose, may have enabled swift measures, but at the same time, it has a one-size-fits-all approach. It would be ideal to have a law that tailors punishments proportionately to the behaviour it seeks to secure.As the coronavirus pandemic continues, the UK government is introducing stricter limits on the public. Each looks at how restrictions on our freedom to move and assemble are evolving. The Covid-19 outbreak has killed more than 270,000 people, as its priorities include a legal obligation to take positive steps to protect people whose lives are at risk. It is not an “absolute” obligation, which means the state may not always be able to fulfil it due to limited resources. The government is taking steps to protect lives amid the coronavirus pandemic, including quarantine and isolation policies, which are interfering with our other rights. Among those affected are the right to liberty (Article 5), freedom of assembly (Article 11), and freedom of movement (Protocol 4 Article 2 of the ECHR – but sweeps across the globe. In the UK, the number of people to die in hospitals stood at about 33,000 by Friday afternoon). These rights must be balanced with the right to life. All three of these rights can be lawfully interfered with on the grounds of protecting public health. The right to liberty specifically enables lawful detention of people for the purpose of preventing the spread of an infectious disease. Provided that the government measures are necessary and proportionate to a legitimate aim (such as preventing the spread of a pandemic), interferences with the rights to liberty, assembly, and movement will comply with human rights.We need to change the vocabulary to encourage honest reporting of symptoms and exposure. How do we do this when India presents more complex issues about social distancing than perhaps any other country in the world? People do not observe physical space or boundaries, nor do they often have the luxury of them. We are hardwired to not be solitary creatures. Will we be capable of the behavioural change required to keep us all safe after complete lockdown measures are lifted, or will the change in behaviour continue to be demanded and imposed on us by the law? We now seem to be part of a global consensus supporting the necessity to trade off one right to preserve another. In India, it is the poor that have disproportionately borne the burden of this. A trade implies receiving something in return for what you forfeit. Did the poor participate in a trade at all? The right to life has been interpreted by the Supreme Court to include the right to live with dignity. Yet, we failed to provide a life of dignity during lockdown to our most economically vulnerable people. This is a cross that the nation will carry forever.The writer is head of the political science department, B.N. Mandal Unversity, Madhepura, Bihar, India. He can be reached at: [email protected]"
M A Niazi,Playing with fire,2020-05-14,"Easing the lockdown may be prematureAT PENPOINTPakistan has opted to ease its lockdown, even though it has not yet hit peak of the pandemic, nor has it got in place the testing facilities that are supposed to be an essential concomitant of any easing of the lockdown. Prime Minister Imran Khan seems inclined to do what is necessary to revive the economy, even though it is not clear why he needs to do so, or whether the easing will revive the economy or not.While US President Donald Trump has a clear electoral target for trying to end the US lockdown, facing a re-election vote in November, Imran does not have the same electoral compulsion. He might look at Narendra Modi in next-door India, who has been extending a similar lockdown, which he has imposed on his country. Modi has not shown any haste, perhaps because he came off an election last year, and does not need to face the electorate until 2024. Imran’s own election was earlier, but as he does not have to go to the electorate until 2023, he has no reason to be hasty.A further incentive not to rush things is that Pakistan is not an engine of the world economy. Pakistan’s economic activity will not pick up until the world economy does, and with the world looking likely not to revive until the USA comes out of the surge that it now seems to be undergoing, it is possible that the re-opening will be premature. China has experienced its surge, as has Europe, and the USA is left.However, the surge’s passing does not mean the end of the crisis. It might merely prove to be a pause between waves. Another thing is the events of the present rather than the future, which show that the number of casualties in Europe and China are still occurring, new cases are still appearing, the only change being a decrease in the number of deaths. This decrease should last, but already there are fears being voiced that there will be a winter surge. The virus will appear to die down over the summer, but will make a comeback over the winter, when it gets the chances given to it by existing viral infections, which will reduce immunity to other infections.There is something called herd immunity, when people do not catch the disease because they’ve already had it. Also, they can’t act as carriers because they can’t catch it, which means that the chain of transmission will be broken, making it even harder to catch the disease. At that point, it is thought, even people who have not had the disease will not catch it, because they would not have been exposed to it.Imran might do well to remember that he does face an election until 2023, unless he dissolves earlier (and the last time that happened was in 1993; the only time a PM dissolved off his own bat was in 1977). His handling of the pandemic may be either hamfisted or sagacious, only the electorate will decide. However, elections are not about the past. The next poll will probably be about who is most likely to prepare for the Next Big OneThere is a problem with such an approach, though, and that is the high number of deaths that would take place if it was followed. The number of infections would have to cover 30 percent of the population, which would undergo a fatality rate of something like 10 percent, which would work out to three percent, which would mean about 6 million people in Pakistan. Apart from the extreme lack of concern shown for human life, the healthcare system, already creaking at the joints, would collapse early on.This scenario would likely play out sooner rather than later, because the weather is not acting so as to meet Imran’s belief (and fervent hope) that the virus would be killed off by the dry heat of summer. Nature seems to be conspiring against Mankind, particularly in the South Asian region. However, this conspiracy has the same origin as the virus itself. Just as the coronavirus is the latest, and so far most successful, to make the leap from species endangered by global warming to human beings, so is the failure of the weather to grow hotter to be ascribed to the effects of global warming.Incidentally, another effect of this relatively pleasant weather during Ramadan is that the monsoon will probably fail, with the resultant agricultural disaster to be laid at the door of the present government. Apart from the monsoon failure, there is also a locust invasion, again to be attributed to global warming, which has made the locust spread into areas which are newly becoming attractive to it. That was the reason for the dengue fever epidemic: the increasing warmth made the climate more hospitable to the mosquito carrying the germ.This puts Pakistan on unpleasant territory. US President Donald Trump claims that not only is global warming a hoax, but it is a Chinese conspiracy to stop the USA becoming great again. Pakistan has been a loyal ally of the USA, which still feels it can make it use its influence with the Taliban over the prisoner swap with the Kabul government that is causing difficulties in the peace process. Yet it has also been a staunch friend of China, not just because both countries fought wars with India in the 1960s, but because their cooperation across a broad spectrum of activities has been greater than the benefits Pakistan has got from the USA.With China and the USA using the covid-19 pandemic as an arena of competition, Pakistan is being forced to choose between the two. Pakistan does not like the USA’s growing closeness to India, seeing this as a preliminary to being forced to follow the Indian lead in settling the Kashmir issue. The recent partition of Kashmir state into two separate union territories indicates a movement towards an independent Kashmir. The USA can be expected to exert pressure on Pakistan to accept this.While this sort of politics continues, the process of global warming continues. The result of economic collapse has meant the shutting down of a lot of polluting factories, and the unexpected return of wildlife. There has not been an irreversible change, but the takeaway is clear: there should be a lot fewer industries, probably even a lot fewer people. And it seems that that is the direction Imran has chosen.Of course, it might be incompetence rather than malevolence. That is certainly what Trump is accused of, in his response to the crisis, as well as his rush to reopen, even before the USA has gone through its own surge. The high casualty rate, which is the highest in the world, is to an extent because of a large population. The claim that the Chinese launched the pandemic to get him to lose the election is perhaps a bit of explaining in advance to his base of why he will lose. This rush to reopen contrasts with British PM Boris Johnson, who is taking it relatively slowly, now that his country is past the surge of its first wave; but then, Johnson doesn’t face an election until 2024.Imran might do well to remember that he does face an election until 2023, unless he dissolves earlier (and the last time that happened was in 1993; the only time a PM dissolved off his own bat was in 1977). His handling of the pandemic may be either ham-fisted or sagacious, only the electorate will decide. However, elections are not about the past. The next poll will probably be about who is most likely to prepare for the Next Big One."
Web Desk,Gilgit Baltistan: In constitutional Limbo,2020-05-14,"Gilgit Baltistan is still given the short end of the stickBY: Abul Hascham BarkhayaGilgit Baltistan is a 74,000-km2 territory over which two nuclear-armed arch-rivals, Pakistan and India, have been equally contending for over seven decades. The territorial conflict over Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan has brought India and Pakistan in multiple ferocious wars, over which the loss of both nations is inconceivable. The barometer of patriotism and nationalism on both sides of the Line of Control depends on detestation and bigotry towards each other. However, in all this hate-centered nationalism, the people of Gilgit Baltistan and Kashmir are the ones who are suffering the most.It is pertinent to note that Gilgit Baltistan is the only region which annexed itself with Pakistan by choice not by default. After getting sovereign independence under the indigenous leadership of Col Mirza Hasan Khan and Major Babur Khan from the then Dogra raj on 1st November 1947, Gilgit Baltistan remained an independent state for 14 days. On 15 November, Gilgit Baltistan voluntarily annexed itself to the newly-born state of Pakistan under the anonymous Karachi agreement, without knowing the fact that Pakistan would again bind it with the tendentious Kashmir squabble.Putting a perennial question mark on the status of Gilgit Baltistan, the state of Pakistan implemented inhumane laws in the disputed region. In Gilgit Baltistan, the problems are uncountable in all spheres of life, for instance, lack of education, health, unemployment, energy crisis, infrastructure, poverty and much more. However, after seven decades of so-called independence, the real problem of the people of Gilgit Baltistan is the identity crisis afficting both them and the region.. The nonrepresentation, and sometimes misrepresentation, of the region in both national and international arenas, is also troubling. There is no voice of Gilgit Baltistan in the democratic system of the Pakistani Parliament. The people of Gilgit Baltistan are not allowed to represent themselves in the National Assembly and Senate of Pakistan, rather an elected politico from Dera Ismail Khan has been given the responsibility of representing the disputed region. Unfortunately he himself had never been to the region before being given that position, which means he is unaware of the real problems of the people of Gilgit Baltistan.The only demand of the people of Gilgit Baltistan from last seven decades are the constitutional rights for the region but the state of Pakistan seems too busy to hear the voices of the oppressed. In such conditions, there are greater chances for the antagonistic powers to use this disenchantment to create chaos in the disputed regionAn unjust law is the operation of a section of the draconian anti-terrorism act, popularly known as ATA, Fourth Schedule, in the disputed region. The basic purpose of the law was to prevent terrorism and sectarian violence, and to speed up the trials of heinous offences as well as keep a check on extremist elements affiliated with any proscribed, sectarian or religious groups. However, in Gilgit-Baltistan, the local authorities (district administration) have used the ATA as a tool to intimidate progressive and nationalist political workers, educated youth and social media activists to suppress dissent voices. Baba Jan, the former vice-president of the Awami Workers Party, and his companions are convicted under this despotic law for raising voices for the political and social rights of Gilgit Baltistan. Currently, Baba Jan has been sentenced to life imprisonment after being convicted by an anti-terrorism court for raising a voice against the barbaric murder of a disaster-affected man and his son by the Gilgit Baltistan police on 11 August 2011 at Aliabad, Hunza.However, the irony is that terrorists and other religious fanatics are roaming freely in the region destroying girls’ schools or attacking security personnel, while those political and social activists who are raising their voice for the fundamental rights of the disputed region are persecuted under the notorious Schedule Four of the ATA. Recently, a month ago another misuse of this Act was carried out by the Assistant Commissioner (AC) of Skardu, Baltistan, who had placed the names of dozens of students on a watch-list under Section 11 of the ATA, because they protested against the inept AC and the inefficiency of the local administration in the city. Under this draconian law, the suspects are not allowed to move out of their hometowns without the permission of the relevant police station. Their accounts are frozen, their mobility is restricted, and it is like an open prison.Another major concern among the dwellers of the disputed region is the violation of the UNCIP 1948 resolutions. After the inception of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, the state of Pakistan is following in the footsteps of Indian government. Thousands of acres of land have been allotted to the outsiders to change the demography of the disputed region, which will ultimately convert the local majority to a minority, which will make the Kashmir dispute incapacitated internationally. The same strategy is under process in Indian Occupied Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370 of the Indian Constitution. The Indian government has multiple times used this as a strong weapon against the state of Pakistan to malign it in the international arena. Pakistan needs to stop this, if they want to solve this cause of disagreement, under the United Nation resolutions.Despite of all this injustice, atrocities and colonial attitude of the federation towards the disputed region the people of Gilgit Baltistan are loyal to Pakistan and their hearts beat with Pakistanis. The only demand of the people of Gilgit Baltistan from last seven decades are the constitutional rights for the region but the state of Pakistan seems too busy to hear the voices of the oppressed. In such conditions, there are greater chances for the antagonistic powers to use this disenchantment to create chaos in the disputed region. Recently, many national and international rights bodies have expressed concerns over the violation of fundamental rights in Gilgit Baltistan. Thus it is of the utmost importance for the responsible individuals to address these issues before it becomes too late."
Sultan M Hali,Arabs condemn India’s Islamophobia,2020-05-14,"Indians’ own extremists are going too far for ArabsThe world is desperately engaged in combating the global pandemic of covid-19 but India, instead of focusing its efforts on saving its people from the dreaded virus, is hurling slander, accusing them of a ‘conspiracy’ to spread coronavirus. This despicable act by India has raised serious concerns amidst the Gulf countries and OIC. It is heartening that two members of two different royal families have verbally lashed out against India.Qatar based international TV channel Aljazeera, in its hard hitting opinion piece titled ‘Why Arabs are speaking out against Islamophobia in India’ reports that in the past couple of weeks, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), the Kuwait government, a royal princess of the United Arab Emirates (UAE), as well as a number of Arab activists, have called out Islamophobic hate speech by Indians seen to be accusing the country’s Muslims of spreading the novel coronavirus.Her Highness Mona bint Fahd al Said, an Omani princess, has boldly tweeted: “Oman stands with its Muslim brothers and sisters in India. If the Indian government doesn’t stop the persecution of Muslims, then one million (Indian) workers working in Oman may be expelled. I will definitely take up this issue with the Sultan of Oman.”Pakistani President Arif Alvi thanked the Omani government and Royal family in a TV talk show, quoting the tweets by the Omani princess. India tried to spin-doctor the powerful statement by the Omani princess, claiming that the tweet was fake, but subsequent investigations prove its veracity. It is recommended that the higher echelons in Pakistan’s political hierarchy verify social media messages before quoting them on the electronic media in this age of fake news. Luckily this particular message by the Omani Princess turned out to be true.It is no coincidence that Princess Hend al-Qassimi, a member of the UAE royal family, also warned “openly racist and discriminatory” Indians in the Gulf that they “will be fined and made to leave” the country. According to Aljazeera, Princess al-Qassimi, who has emerged as one of the most prolific Arab voices against Islamophobia in India, last week wrote a column for Gulf News, in which she said: “The world doesn’t need another Hitler, but it needs another hero like Martin Luther, Nelson Mandela, or Gandhi. Killing your brethren doesn’t make you a hero, it makes you a dictator and murderer. A snowballing movement has been started, which has reverberated across the Arab world,” she wrote in her piece, titled ‘I pray for an India without hate and Islamophobia’.India will have to control its loose cannons indulging in Islamophobia. It may remain oblivious to Pakistan’s concerns regarding the targeting of Indian Muslims, but it cannot ignore the loud and clear condemnation by the GCC states and the OICThe anger and angst of the GCC members became visible when right-wing Hindus accusing Muslims of a “conspiracy” to spread the coronavirus after dozens of cases were linked to a congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary movement, at its headquarters in New Delhi, in the middle of March.Hashtags such as #CoronaJihad trended for days on Twitter and panelists in TV debates called them “human bombs”, while many called for a ban on the Jamaat. Its New Delhi office has been sealed. On April 19, India’s Ministry of Home Affairs said more than 4000 of the nearly 15,000 cases detected until that day were linked to the Jamaat, whose chief Mullah Saad Kandhalvi was charged with “culpable homicide” and money laundering and is likely to be arrested.Following the Jamaat issue, a wave of Islamophobic posts was unleashed on social media by the propounders of Hindutva, some of them employed in Gulf countries. Dubai-based Indian, Saurabh Upadhyay, asked Muslims to “accept they were the source of the pandemic” and called for the death of Jamaat members, describing them as “terrorists”.“The level of hubris of the Hindutva fascists shocked people throughout the world, changing previously held opinions,” Dr Farhan Mujahid Chak, who teaches political science in the Gulf Studies programme at Qatar University, told Al-Jazeera.It is noteworthy that in the past month, at least six Hindus working in the Gulf region have lost their jobs or have been charged for their social media posts. About 8.5 million Indians live and work in Gulf countries, a significant number of them Hindus.India is rocking the boat with its extremist Hindutva mentality and jeopardizing its $100 billion trade with the GCC countries. “Every year, more than $55 billion are transferred to India from the Gulf countries, and more than $120 billion annually from all Muslim countries. Indians (mostly Hindus) are treated well in these countries,” Kuwait-based activist Abdur Rahman Nassar tweeted.“In return, how are Muslims treated in India?” he asked.Another Kuwaiti national, lawyer and director of International Human Rights group, Mejbel al-Sharika, tweeted that he will “adopt the cause of Muslims in India” at the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva “for free”.On April 20, in what was a clear sign of the issue escalating in the Arab world, Kuwait expressed its “deep concern” over the treatment of India’s Muslims and asked the OIC to intervene.“Did those who commit crimes against humanity against Muslims in India and violate their rights think that Muslims in the world will remain silent about these crimes and do not move politically, legally and economically against them?” a statement by the general secretariat of the Kuwait Council of Ministers said.Earlier, on April 18, the OIC had issued a statement, urging India to take urgent steps to “stop the growing tide of Islamophobia” in the country.A day after the OIC statement, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Covid-19 does not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or borders before striking. Our response and conduct thereafter should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood. We are in this together.”Sultan Barakat, Drector of the Centre for Conflict and Humanitarian Studies at Qatar’s Doha Institute, told Al-Jazeera that people in the Gulf countries “felt outraged” over the way Indian Muslims were being blamed for the coronavirus pandemic. “Such stupid assertions angered people here, not only because it is Islamophobic but more importantly, because it is counterproductive to a global pandemic that is blind to religion and recognizes no borders,” he said.“Millions of Indians have been living in Arab countries for decades with hardly any discrimination against Indians─ Hindu, Muslim or any other. Such Islamophobic comments are particularly hurtful when originating from individuals who have lived and worked in the Gulf.”India’s former ambassador to the UAE, Talmiz Ahmed, called the Indians who posted comments against the Arabs and Muslims in India “extremely foolish individuals with very limited knowledge of politics or international affairs”.Simultaneously, on 30 April, the US Commission on International Religious Freedom dropped a bomb when its 2020 report urged the State Department to designate India as a “country of particular concern” over “severe violations” of religious freedom. Although India rejected the US report, calling it “biased”, it will be hard for the country’s Hindu nationalist government to ignore a growing global concern over the targeting of India’s Muslims.In a concerted effort in damage control, Indian media is propagating that a foreign security agency is behind the growing trend of spoiling India’s image in the Gulf countries. India will have to control its loose cannons indulging in Islamophobia. It may remain oblivious to Pakistan’s concerns regarding the targeting of Indian Muslims, but it cannot ignore the loud and clear condemnation by the GCC states and the OIC."
Dr Farid A Malik,Come clean or keep quiet,2020-05-13,"Attitudes of public servants have changedWhere white-collar crime is involved, the much revered common law seems helpless. The onus of proof is on the accuser while the accused has several remedies, including bail. Conviction can take decades as multiple remedies of appeal are available. Over the years delay mechanisms have been developed to perfection. During the martial law years, the superior judiciary provided relief to the genuine political activists and dissidents but now thugs and ruffians are taking advantage of this latitude.My late father, the worker of the Pakistan Movement and soldier of the Quaid, was a habitual litigant as he believed in a black and white world where there was no room for grey areas. Compromise on principles was unknown to him. The first item on his list of don’ts was; “NO COMPROMISES, DO NOT FEAR CONFRONTATION”. He always fought back with his muscles, pen or the law. For a straight man in a crooked environment, life was tough for him but he did not give up till his last breath. Finally his heart stopped beating in September 1991. I had to take over from where he had left. There were about 20 court cases that I inherited which ranged from property matters to bureaucratic abuses. In every case there were requests for early hearing, for he sought expeditious justice that was denied to him. It was evident that only the guilty seek delays as they cannot come clean, only the righteous desire quick decisions.For the first time the corrupt, affluent and rich who have enjoyed power for the last three to four decades are now facing the courts. Delay is their only defense as they cannot come clean. The astronomical rise in their assets and overflowing bank accounts are indefensible. The courts continue to follow the due process while the situation on ground demands extraordinary efforts to curtail delays. While some believe that ‘Justice delayed is justice denied’, in the land of the pure the accused who are not righteous follow a different rule, ‘Justice rushed is justice crushed’. Their only weapon of defense being delays which is exercised through a team of well-connected expensive lawyers. When the process is speeded up for the purpose of expeditious resolution they call it foul play. Getting bails and pretending to be innocent are among their delaying tactics.The delaying tactics of the unscrupulous have to be dealt with for the land of the pure to regain its purity. The judiciary has a pivotal role to play in this crusade, which it must do without rushing cases, but at the same time avoiding delays in themThe resources of the country have been robbed with impunity. Civilian institutions have become non-functional as such their capacity to investigate and prosecute has been weakened. Criminals have taken advantage of this ineffective institutional grip. Courts cannot operate in a vacuum in enforcing law. My friend the former Chief Justice of Pakistan, Mr Justice (retd) Asif Saeed Khosa, had to formulate laws to contain false witnesses and paid touts.There should be a code of conduct for elected public representatives who have been accused of corruption. They should be given an opportunity to come clean before their cases are litigated. In case they cannot come clean, then they should be required to keep quiet till their cases are decided. They should be barred from media appearances as well. Delays have to be effectively dealt with, which is unfortunately not being done.Ill-gotten money does not have a trail as the tracks are meticulously erased. Instead of being open to investigation and presenting their defense most accused challenge the investigative mechanisms. There was a time in the land of the pure when the political leadership used to go home before being called in a court of law. There was a minister from the East Wing who decided to resign when he found out that his office had paid for his personal calls.In the 1970s, the legendary Abdul Hafeez Kardar who got elected from Lahore was appointed the provincial education minister. He continued to live in his own rented house on the Canal and used his personal transport, kept his office hours and strictly followed merit. Till 1985 most political leadership was both able and honest who had entered politics to serve, not to earn. After the end of their term they gracefully left their offices with no charges of corruption or impropriety against them.The genie of corruption has to be put back into the bottle to contain it, but unfortunately its voices are being heard and transmitted which is resulting in confusion. Doubt creates delays. Despite the best efforts of the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) and other investigating agencies, convictions have not taken place. The rot continues unabated. Transitions are never easy combined with the influence of the unscrupulous elements has made it even more difficult.Several dodges and cover-up mechanisms have been introduced like, Selective Accountability, Victimization of the Opposition, Disbanding the NAB, and so on. A public representative should always be ready for accountability, he should not hide behind excuses or delays. It is widely believed that ‘mystery is always mischief’. Only mischievous individuals hide behind delays, the rest are forthcoming. Naturally those who have been moving the levers of the state in the last three to four decades will be the first to be taken to task. Eventually everyone will have to come clean, no matter which political party he or she is hiding in.Delays in conviction cannot be treated as vindication as is being projected by the opposition parties. Interestingly in the famous high-profile ‘ Drug Trafficking Case’ against the former Law Minister of Punjab, two adjournments have been requested by the defense. The seeking of extensions in hearing dates indicates mischief on the part of those seeking the extension.My father, the upright litigant for his rights, always demanded expeditious resolution of his cases. He talked and defended himself in the court of law, not in the media. The delaying tactics of the unscrupulous have to be dealt with for the land of the pure to regain its purity. The judiciary has a pivotal role to play in this crusade, which it must do without rushing cases, but at the same time avoiding delays in them. Pakistan needs a major course correction for its future which has to be pursued with vigour, commitment and courage, business as usual will not produce results."
Web Desk,Infringements of women’s rights amid the pandemic,2020-05-13,"This problem should not be swept under the carpetBy: Changezi SandhuThere is much yet to expose regarding the violence against women because we contemplate and examine according to the violence cases against women which are exposed. But the reality is that there are more uncountable cases than the exposed about there are many cases of infringement of women’s rights which are still unveiled.The rights of women are being violated in all forms of family systems throughout the world. Even the cases of domestic violence against women amidst the coronavirus outbreak in developed countries have shrunk the narrative that women’s rights are more protected in developed countries. But the difference lies not in the occurrence of domestic violence against women, only in the number.Violating women’s rights is highly prevalent. Violence by a partner is the most common cause of violence. The most disgusting aspect is that the violence becomes higher than in normal conditions in emergencies such as war, pandemic, and many other types of emergency. Older and disabled women are expected to have additional risks in the epoch of the emergency. One woman in three faces physical or sexual violence in the world, already.According to an article published in TIME, “As Cities Around the World Go on Lockdown, Victims of Domestic Violence Look for a Way Out” the writer opines that the reports from China, the United Kingdom, the USA as well as from other countries suggested the surge in domestic violence against women after the coronavirus outbreak. Even, the United Nations and the World Health Organization have already warned of the expected threats to women’s rights in the shape of domestic violence.Thrice the number of cases of domestic violence have been reported to a police station in Jingzhou, a city of the province of Hubei, in the second month of 2020 as compared to the same period of the previous year.In the coronavirus epoch, women’s rights are under danger especially at the hands of their partners. According to the World Health Organization, “Violence against women can result in injuries and serious physical, mental, sexual and reproductive health problems, including sexually transmitted infections, HIV, and unplanned pregnancies.”The World Health Organization suggested improving the situation by stating that, “All stakeholders involved in the COVID-19 response need to raise awareness of the potential effects that physical distancing, stay at home and other measures are likely to have on women who are subjected to violence and their children.”The condition of women’s rights is more vulnerable in the conflict-ridden and war-torn countries. Gross violations against women’s rights have been reported after the eruption of the coronavirus in Indian Occupied Kashmir. The violation of women’s rights is becoming severe in the Occupied Valley. Women are deprived of their basic rights of treatment and movement. The rights of women are also under danger in Syria and in many parts of other African countries.In the United Kingdom, many cases of domestic violence have been registered during the pandemic. To counter the rise in such cases, the UK government has launched helpline and online services to register and respond to complaints of domestic violence. According to the national sources of the country, “the number of calls to the National Domestic Abuse helpline run by Refuge was 25 percent above average in the second week of lockdown and 49 percent higher than normal after three weeks.”Women in Pakistan were already sweltering in the heat of domestic violence, but the pandemic is making them more vulnerable, as has been happening in other parts of the world. Increasing use of abusive language against women, some religious leaders calling them responsible for the spread of the coronavirus because they wear short dresses, sexual violence, harassment of nurses, female doctors, and other female staff in hospitals who are treating coronavirus patients especially, are among the leading examples of this, but there are many more. Even, some days ago, a case was reported in KPK where an uncle murdered a child, a girl, by firing because she was making noise.The World Health Organization suggested improving the situation by stating that, “All stakeholders involved in the COVID-19 response need to raise awareness of the potential effects that physical distancing, stay at home and other measures are likely to have on women who are subjected to violence and their children.”The government and policymakers should play a pivotal and effective role in order to counter domestic violence by taking preventive measures. Human rights organizations and civil society should also play their role to highlight the cases which are still unreported. We all should become the voice of voiceless. This crisis is taking place behind doors that have been closed. But this is no excuse for ignorance."
Dr James J Zogby,The end of empire,2020-05-13,"“And all the King’s horses and all the King’s men couldn’t put Humpty Dumpty back together again.”I am following worldwide commentary about my country’s disastrous handling of the coronavirus pandemic with equal measures of frustration, fury, and embarrassment. Writers from Europe, the Arab World, Israel, and those here at home have remarked on our dysfunctional politics, the inept and chaotic response of our leadership, and our failures both to care for our own people and to provide leadership in the world. Here are few examples of recent comments from writers who have historically been friends of America:From an Israeli commentator: “The country seems like a train wreck: Its systems are failing, hospitals collapsing, patients crying for help and corpses piling up in makeshift morgues. New York, the jewel in the crown, has turned into a ghost town and valley of death: the undeclared capital of the free world cannot hide its shame…“It could have been America’s finest hour…Rather than serving as a role model for all, Trump’s United States has turned into a bad joke.”This from the Arab Gulf: “During the last few months, I spent many hours…watching on television the deterioration of the situation in the United States, puzzled by the figures that reveal the crumbling economy of the richest country in the world, and the rising numbers of corona victims. This pushes one to wonder: Why is the richest, most advanced and most civilized state, which is benefiting the most from global wealth, the same one in which the number of deaths by coronavirus exceeded one-third of the deaths worldwide…?”And critics from Europe were no less harsh: questioning President Trump’s grasp on reality; expressing consternation at his confusing and often contradictory statements; stating that the US was “no longer fit to lead;” and lamenting what had become of the once “shining city on the hill.”How did we come to this point?In the first place, it isn’t Donald Trump or the Coronavirus pandemic that fractured the American polity. Nor are they responsible for the demise of US leadership in the world. We were already fractured and our leadership has long been in decline. If anything, Trump and the coronavirus have served to highlight (as well as exacerbate) both the fault lines in our dysfunctional politics and our loss of standing in the world.It was just three decades ago that the USSR collapsed, leaving the USA as the sole super power. Heady over this victory, some commentators prematurely envisioned the emergence of a “New World Order” and arrogantly began to plan for an “American Century.” Their gloating lasted only a decade before US leadership began to unravel, largely due to the Bush Administration’s disastrous response to the terror attacks of 9/11. While most nations around the world were ready to work with the USA to punish the perpetrators of that horrible slaughter of innocents, the Bush Administration, guided by hubris and blind ideology, led the country into two wars that instead of projecting and insuring US leadership, resulted in an America that was weaker, less respected, and more isolated than at any other time in our modern history. The wars’ costs in lives, treasure, trust, and prestige created opportunities for other nations, like China and Russia, to assert themselves both regionally and globally, opening the door to the current multi-polar world.The world stands aghast at the naked truth that America is not only incapable of leading the world, but also failing to protect its own people. In the past, America would lead a worldwide effort in cooperation with other countries to find a cure and provide assistance. Instead, we have withdrawn our financial assistance to the most vulnerable and are raiding world markets to buy up protective equipment we failed to produce and stockpileWhile President Barack Obama realized the magnitude of the problems created by his predecessor, his efforts to extricate the USA from Iraq and Afghanistan and to restore its image were hampered both by his failure to grasp the complexity of the challenges resulting from the war and the dysfunctional hyper-partisanship of our politics. I remember debating a number of leading Bush Administration figures and Republican elected officials right after Obama’s “A New Beginning” Cairo speech. They were all using the same talking points, saying that Obama had betrayed the USA by condemning torture, demonstrated weakness by speaking against the war, and sold out Israel by opposing its settlement policy. When I was asked by the host of one of these shows whether I believed that Obama could succeed in bridging the deep divide, I responded that he stood a better chance of doing so with the Arab and Muslim Worlds than with the Republicans here at home.Obama’s efforts to change direction in the Middle East were stymied, but he did succeed in reconstructing at least some of the architecture of global diplomacy that the Bush Administration had left in tatters. He negotiated agreements to deal with climate change, to rein in China’s growing influence in Asia, and to limit Iran’s nuclear program.Because Republicans opposed all three, Obama left office with the edifices he had constructed on shaky ground. In the end, Obama will be remembered for having created high expectations which failed to materialize, leading to even greater concern about America’s ability to lead in the world.The election of Donald Trump was the byproduct of our partisan dysfunction. His “populism” was fuelled by xenophobia, racism, and the anger of the middle class that the Republicans had been cultivating for decades. Once in office, Trump walked away from all of the international agreements negotiated by his predecessor, turned his back on many of the USA’s European allies, courted a number of newly emergent right-wing leaders, and sent contradictory messages regarding the USA’s commitments in the world.Ever the showman, he never stopped inciting his populist support base, taking partisan dysfunction to new levels. While his chaotic and unorthodox governing style and his contradictory statements have created confusion about his policies, Trump nevertheless has toed the Republican line on taxes, deregulation, and the appointment of conservative judges. He has also dismantled or severely weakened many government institutions and placed unqualified cronies in critical government posts.Then came the pandemic.Trump’s initial instinct was to claim it was just a flu and would soon pass. As the impact of the pandemic became clear, he turned to Twitter and daily press conferences to boast, mislead, and strike out at his enemies. As so often before, he has relied on xenophobia and anger at Democrats and “elites” to deny he had ever been wrong and trumpet his leadership.All this may help solidify his base and make them feel he is winning against the “invisible enemy” he says we are defeating. But the numbers prove otherwise. While his base continues to be mesmerized by the “emperor’s new clothes,” the world stands aghast at the naked truth that America is not only incapable of leading the world, but also failing to protect its own people. In the past, America would lead a worldwide effort in cooperation with other countries to find a cure and provide assistance. Instead, we have withdrawn our financial assistance to the most vulnerable and are raiding world markets to buy up protective equipment we failed to produce and stockpile. At the same time, our infection and death rates exceed every other country’s. Our testing rates are significantly lower than most other nations.The world sees all of this and laments the continuing decline of the once great superpower that won the Cold War. And they wonder whether, after decades of deepening partisan dysfunction and decline, America will be able to reclaim its leadership role."
Amjed Jaaved,The elusive virus,2020-05-13,"Will smoking help? Or astrology?covid-19 is an elusive virus. The common symptoms of covid-19 are dry cough, fever, sore throat, tiredness and respiratory difficulties. However, there is no consistency in the virus’ behavior. Unlike covid-19’s cousins SARS and MERS, covid-19 patients may be symptom-free, spreading the virus around. To identify asymptomatic patients, doctors notice a pink eye, sudden loss of smell or taste, and now covid toes. Dermatologists in Italy found a sudden surge in inflammation in toes in March. Dermatologists in Europe and America are discussing a new potential symptom to identify a covid-19 patient, particularly if the novel coronavirus has infected kids and young adults. In March, some dermatologists in Italy found an inflammation of toes and feet, and discolouration of the organ of those suffering from covid-19.This condition is akin to frostbite or pernio, a condition found among people living in harsh winters in polar and sub-polar regions. There, blood vessels in the toes get aggravated inflammation and toes tend to have serious spasm.The condition was nicknamed ‘ Covid Toes’ because dermatologists found it to be most prevalent in areas with a high concentration of covid-19 patients in Italy. ‘Covid Toes’ have surfaced in the USA, as in Boston. The American Academy of Dermatology recommended coronavirus tests for kids visiting them with ‘Covid Toes’.There is no conclusive evidence about the origin of the deadly virus. Speculation that it was a biological weapon is uncorroborated.Like India, Pakistan’s TV channels, also, promote pseudo-scientific Zodiac predictions. Newspapers publish daily horoscopes, instead of scientific quizzes to arouse scientific curiosity and ingenuity of the mindA recent erroneous online message circulating around the world and purporting to be a UNICEF communication advised that avoiding ice-cream and other cold foods could help prevent the onset of the disease. Donald Trump threatened India with retaliation if it did not export the requisite quantity of hydroxychloroquine to the USA. India had put the drug on its licensed list. The USA’s Food and Drug Authority however warned against side-effects of unsupervised use of the medicine. It increases the heartbeat. Nevertheless, hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine are FDA-approved to treat or prevent malaria, treat lupus and rheumatoid arthritis.As yet, there is no proven retroviral drug. Germany and the USA have tested some vaccines. A drug Tamiflu, effective against Respiratory Syndrome and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, and Remdesivir (Gilead Sciences Inc.), originally tested on Ebola, are being experimented on COVID19, besides HIV medicine Kaletra/Aluvia (lopinavir)/ritonavir (AbbVie). India has progressed into an indigenous synthesis of multiple promising anti-viral molecules such as Umifenovir, Favipiravir. phytopharmaceuticals, and leads from traditional medical systems are also being explored in parallel. A covid-19 patient recovered from convalescent plasma therapy. But, results elsewhere are not similar. Use of herbal medicines like kalonji (black seeds, kadha, and their ilk has doubtful efficacy.Nicotine could protect people from contracting the coronavirus, according to new research in France. Findings come after researchers at a top Paris hospital examined 343 coronavirus patients along with 139 people infected with the illness, but with milder symptomsThey found that a low number of them smoked, compared to smoking rates of around 35 percent in France’s general population.Nicotine could protect people “Among these patients, only five percent were smokers,” said Zahir Amoura, the study’s co-author and a professor of internal medicine. The theory is that nicotine could adhere to cell receptors, therefore blocking the virus from entering cells and spreading in the body, according to renowned neurobiologist Jean-Pierre Changeux from France’s Pasteur Institut, who also co-authored the study. Smoking kills 75,000 smokers every year.The pseudo-`professsors’ and believers claim that the French apothecary, astrologer and seer Michel de Nostradamus wrote in the year 1551: “There will be a twin year (2020) from which will arise a queen (Corona) who will come from the east (China) and who will spread a plague (virus) in the darkness of night on a country with seven hills (Italy) and will transform the Twilight of men into dust (death), to destroy and ruin the world. It will be the end of the world economy as you know it.”Astrologer Acharya Vinod Kumar in an Instagram post has predicted that the coronavirus will end in India between September and November. For many the current position of the celestial objects is the reason for the global pandemic.Like India, Pakistan’s TV channels, also, promote pseudo-scientific Zodiac predictions. Newspapers publish daily horoscopes, instead of scientific quizzes to arouse scientific curiosity and ingenuity of the mind. In Egypt, Aristotle found a plate with the zodiac carved in gold. He could not make head or tail of it, and sent it to Alexander far afield. He too was skeptical. Alexander however continued to roam naked around Ulysses to attract good fortune in his battles. He also drew solace from the Aristotle-annotated Iliad hidden in his pillow. Spartacus believed in oracles. But, he too took the Oracle of Delphi with a pinch of salt.Fourier proved that Zodiac and other psychic interpretations are vague. Better read Edward de Bono, psychologists Barry Beyerstein, Dickson and Kelly, Myers-Briggs (their Indicator) to avoid being deceived by fraudsters on streets and channels. Mathematician Leibnitz deciphered I Ching (book of changes) into 64 predictions. Psychologist Jung believed in it. Countless people, including psychologists, lawyers, and writers (Jude Devreux) fell a prey to fortunetellers and psychics (The Psychic’s $17 million Scam, Reader’s Digest, May 2014). In USA, a psychic was sentenced to 10 years and one month (though prosecution sought 27 years sentence)."
Web Desk,Our COVID-19 narratives are counterproductive,2020-05-13,"Some of the slogans surrounding covid-19 are not realisticBy: Umar SherazNarratives have the persuasive power to strongly influence how people and nations think and act. Narratives embed within themselves particular power relationships and seduce nations and individuals into thinking, creating value and justifying a particular course of action. There are two damning narratives which are essentially framing the global discourse and power relationships in regards to the covid-19 pandemic.The first critical narrative is the ‘war against covid-19’. We have become accustomed to politicians blaring endlessly about the long war against corona or the media headlines about “doctors battling at the frontline”. In a recent interview for the Journal of Futures Studies, Dr Peter Black, one of the top epidemiologists in the world, discussed how the use of the war metaphor discounts or limits the number of options which become available to address the challenge. Who are we at war against? The current chain of events is a co-evolutionary process in terms of the human population and a virus. Our much-trumpeted foe, the novel Coronavirus does not strategize to beat the human race, nor hold everyday briefings with its generals to wreak havoc on humanity. In retrospect, it is ignorance, arrogance and human activity that is solely the cause of the situation that we are struggling against. Given this war has been waged against an unprecedented foe, it is no wonder that global leadership has usually been either non-existent, confused, or sometimes even harmful for not taking necessary action at the right timeAnd sadly the biggest casualty of war is the human capital which becomes the fuel of the war engines. So the struggle we are engaged in, should be against the demons of our own greed, avarice and indifference towards the Earth’s ecosystem and habitats. How we exorcise these demons will essentially decide how this pandemic pans out and the sort of world that emerges from it.It is going to be a long and weary global struggle ahead. Softening up our narratives could make a post-corona world more humanitarian, rather than a victim of opportunistic bucket lists and war chantsThis narrative has special meaning for Pakistan, because as a nation, war has been a popular yet over-used slogan and rallying point over the past 4 decades. So for the past 40 years, we have been waging Jihad, war against terrorism, war against inflation, war against corruption (Ehtesaab) and war for change (Tabdeeli). Our leaders need to realize that the current lax attitude of our general public is a function of this war-weariness and a change in narratives is the need of the day.The second narrative is the term “opportunity” and the world finds itself being bombarded by suggestions of there being an opportunity from every segment of society. This in itself is problematic as the people who see opportunity, eventually become “opportunistic”. Once the opportunity mindset gets etched into the national and public psyches, there is scant regard to the alternative ways of thinking on the other side of the horizon and they eventually become the monster that they set out to fight. So we find that a once-in-a-generation chance to have a unified vision of a preferred global future is being hampered by opportunists bent on taking advantage of the situation, settling old scores and taking cheap shots at other worldviews. So Donald Trump’s tantrums against China and doctors, the Corona Jihad movement against Muslims in India, the divergence due to nationalism in the European Union, the defiance of the clergy in Pakistan, to name a few, smack of unsound thought-processes and opportunism. They are firmly entrenched in the minds of those attempting to push their agendas, and do not have anything to do with the new post-pandemic reality. It is unfortunate that a once-in-a-generation chance of a global reset button; our narratives are becoming the biggest hurdle in a unified tackling of this global pandemic. And in the creation of a post-pandemic reality better than the one we have.The plausible future also seems to be driven by these two narratives, as once a narrative has taken hold it can be very difficult to shake off. That is at least until an even more compelling ‘counter-narrative’ is introduced, to reframe the issue. Instead of the war metaphor, there are other narratives which are much more useful for us to think about our preferred future, which is very different from anything to do with war. We could talk about the “Coronavirus movement”, similar to freedom movements which united all and sundry towards a common goal and cause. The other change in narrative could be replacing “opportunity” with “possibility”. This helps to accommodate other world views, experimentation and backup plans in case of failure. Anyhow, a pandemic should not e an opportunity, not one which has been bought with so many lives (287,000 worldwide by Tuesday evening).It is going to be a long and weary global struggle ahead. Softening up our narratives could make a post-corona world more humanitarian, rather than a victim of opportunistic bucket lists and war chants."
Malik Muhammad Ashraf,Global disunity against the coronavirus,2020-05-13,"Notwithstanding the fact that the coronavirus has affected almost the entire global community, and that it has humanitarian, social, political and economic implications of unknown proportions requiring a united global approach against the contagion, the world has failed to forge a united front against it. The unfortunate reality is that the big powers which could have provided a global leadership in the fight against this unprecedented challenge of the century are locked in a blame-game about the spread of the virus, placing their political interests above the common humanitarian cause.UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres was right on the money when, in an interview with Reuters recently, he lamented the lack of leadership by world powers and a divided international community in the fight against the coronavirus, particularly in regards to support for the poor countries. He said, “I am particularly worried about insufficient help from the international community for developing countries both in responding to the pandemic and addressing the economic and social impacts. The contribution of China and the United States both to fight covid-19 and to all other aspects in the development of international relations is, in my opinion, absolutely essential”.The remarks of the Secretary General have come in the backdrop of US President Donald Trump re-igniting his war of words with China regarding the origin and handling of the virus as well as his assertion that China would do everything to make him lose his election bid in November; his allegations against the World Health Organization of a China-centric approach and suspension of US funding for the agency. It is pertinent to mention that the WHO had earlier contradicted the claim of the US President about the virus having originated in a lab in China. WHO spokesperson Fadela Chaib said at a news briefing in Geneva that all available evidence suggested that the virus had an animal origin and was not manipulated or constructed in a lab or somewhere else. Perhaps it is because of the USA falling out with the WHO that the UNSC has spent more than a month trying to negotiate a resolution that would emphasize the urgent need for enhanced cooperation among all countries in the fight against the coronavirus and would call for a humanitarian truce in conflicts around the world. Reportedly the key sticking point is how the resolution should reference the WHO in it. The US also stayed out of the WHO initiative where world leaders pledged to accelerate work on tests, drugs and vaccines against covid-19.It is incumbent upon the world community, particularly the affluent nations who are spending trillions of dollars in their own countries on stimulus and relief packages, to write off the loans due from the developing countries instead of only giving a one-year reprieve on debt payments. They should realize that until and unless the developing and poor nations are not helped adequately to deal with the brewing crisis coinciding with the efforts in their own countries to grapple with the invisible enemy, the pandemic cannot be tackled effectively and the cycle of sufferings will continue. By helping the developing and poor countries they will in fact be securing the future of the entire humanity including their ownIt is interesting to note that a predominant view in the USA over Trump’s blame-game against China and the cutting of funds to WHO after accusing it of adopting a pro-China stance, is that he was desperately trying to find scapegoats for his own ineptitude and handling of the challenge. It is further believed that had he spent more time in listening to the WHO instead of trying to hit it, thousands of American lives could have been saved.The reality is that the WHO gave the first warning about coronavirus on January 14 and then rang the alarms bell at the end of the month by declaring it a public health emergency of international concern. It also developed an effective diagnostic test which is used in dozens of countries, while the USA still cannot manage adequate testing. In February also WHO issued urgent warnings about the spread of the virus. Trump ignored them, instead insisting that it was “totally under control” and predicting that the number of infections would drop. By downplaying the threat and adopting a passive approach in spite of the warning about the risks by World Health Organization, President Trump and his own advisors squandered the chance to acquire more personal protective equipment for doctors and nurses. His likening of covid-19 to the flu led people to join public gatherings like Mardi Gras and Florida spring break, and that is one reason the USA has had 80 deaths per million inhabitants from covid-19, compared with four per million in South Korea and fewer than one per million in Taiwan.Another worrying factor in regards to fight against the contagion is that the financial support announced by the G-20, the IMF, the World Bank and the ADB for the poor and developing countries in the shape of a one-year moratorium on payment of their loans is not a commensurate response to the challenge. Although a one-year reprieve on the payment of loans is a welcome move as it would provide some fiscal space to them in the short run, to expand their health systems and lessen economic impact of the virus, but considering the enormity of the challenge and the uncertainty regarding how long the pandemic was going to persist, the effort was not going to achieve the desired results.Economists and experts believe that it would further increase the debt burden of the developing nations. The deferred debt payments will have to be made by these countries after the expiry of the moratorium period; and in view of the dismal growth projections made by the World Bank, these countries may not be able to even do that, what to speak of increasing expenditure on measures to prevent the spread of virus and raising adequate health facilities to treat the people affected by the virus.As appealed by Prime Minister Imran Khan, the right approach would have been writing off the loans of the developing and poor countries altogether. He has rightly launched a diplomatic effort to muster support of other nations for lobbying the affluent nations in this regard. One hopes that the developed countries would respond positively to the initiative.Fighting the coronavirus pandemic has humanitarian as well as economic dimensions. Therefore it is incumbent upon the world community, particularly the affluent nations who are spending trillions of dollars in their own countries on stimulus and relief packages, to write off the loans due from the developing countries instead of only giving a one-year reprieve on debt payments. They should realize that until and unless the developing and poor nations are not helped adequately to deal with the brewing crisis coinciding with the efforts in their own countries to grapple with the invisible enemy, the pandemic cannot be tackled effectively and the cycle of sufferings will continue. By helping the developing and poor countries they will in fact be securing the future of the entire humanity including their own. The sooner it is done the better."
Hasan Aftab Saeed,On ‘isaal-e-sawaab’,2020-05-12,"With a brief survey of ‘good’ and ‘evil’, reward and punishmentThis is one of the most misunderstood concepts among Muslims, especially in the Indian sub-continent and its diaspora in the West. Any number of good things are done ‘in the name’ of the departed, and it is expected that he or she will benefit from them in the Hereafter. The most common of these good deeds is ‘finishing’ the Quran (called khatam) or reciting some Arabic formula so many thousands of times ‘for the benefit of the deceased’.For starters, the concept of sawaab (as usually understood) is itself flawed. Especially when it comes to the Quran, which repeatedly claims that it is a book of guidance. The Quran is therefore supposed to be understood and implemented in one’s life. The ‘reward’ for reading the Quran then is guidance and the ability to differentiate between what is true and what is false. (Can one think of a superior reward?). There can be no guidance or wisdom without understanding. Therefore, the thought of donating the ‘sawaab’ of reciting the Quran to others (living or dead) hardly even means anything.This whole sawaab/gunaah (sin) thing probably needs to be revisited as far as many Muslims are concerned. It is one of the legacies and influences of Christianity that there is way too much emphasis on sawaab and gunah. From the human viewpoint good and evil are those things that are beneficial and harmful, respectively, for mankind. Gary Miller made a telling point when he said that you are not punished for your ‘sins’; you are punished by your ‘sins’. Evil done brings evil to the doer, even if momentarily (and from the outside) it may appear that one has gotten away with it. That is the nature of evil. By doing something harmful one triggers a chain of events that has its effects as certain as the putting in motion of a physical reaction. What holds for punishment also holds for rewards. So, one could employ Miller’s phraseology to say that you are not rewarded for your good deeds; you are rewarded by your good deeds. Good done brings good to the doer, even if momentarily (and from the outside) it may appear that one is not benefitting from it. That is the nature of good. By doing something beneficial one triggers a chain of events that has its effects as certain as the putting in motion of a physical reaction.So, one could employ Miller’s phraseology to say that you are not rewarded for your good deeds; you are rewarded by your good deeds. Good done brings good to the doer, even if momentarily (and from the outside) it may appear that one is not benefitting from it. That is the nature of good. By doing something beneficial one triggers a chain of events that has its effects as certain as the putting in motion of a physical reaction.Now, there is certainly no reason for this chain of events to stop when one dies. Indeed, in Islam there’s this concept of sadqa-e-jaariya (ongoing charity), which means that if somebody plants a seed with the intention of benefitting people and it grows into a tree, then he will be credited with the reward (even after his death) as long as people keep benefitting from its shade and fruit. And that is only fair, for the man initiated a good thing that was of a sustaining nature. Now, ongoing-charity is not limited to things like planting of trees or digging water-wells alone. If a man takes pains to inculcate in his progeny the habit of saying prayers (for example), then that too would benefit him after his death, for he started a good thing that outlived him. But it doesn’t stand to reason why a man should benefit (while living or posthumously) from something that he never bothered to practice in his life much less encouraged others to do, even if some people are considerate enough to ‘donate’ the reward to him? There are no two ways about it: in Islam, a man only gets what he strives for [53:39].This is understandably a deeply emotional issue with many people. Can we then do nothing to improve the lot of our loved ones who have moved on, they ask. Well, one can always pray for the deceased and remember them fondly, although prayers and fond memories again benefit the one praying and doing the remembering more than anybody else (supplication is another nuanced subject, to be discussed another day). It is certainly a good idea to be persistent in doing any good things taught/encouraged by the departed; and every man has to his credit more or less of such things. But apart from any sadqa-e-jaariya that he initiated in his life, a man’s ledger is closed with his death. This isn’t such a gloomy thought either, for it is equally reassuring as well. If a man does not benefit from any good deeds (in which he played no part himself) after him, then he doesn’t get punished either for any evil (towards which he played no role in his life) perpetrated after he is gone."
Mahnoor Sheikh,War is not the only threat to countries,2020-05-12,"Time to reassess prioritiesFor centuries, countries have preferred increasing military power, thinking this is what adds to their security and sovereignty. The year 2020, however, is an eye-opener for many such power seeking states who prioritised defence over human development.The turn of the decade has so far shown both these aspects of state’s behaviour. In January, the world faced a threat of a war when the United States and Iran locked horns over the killing of Iranian Commander General Qassem Soleimani in a US airstrike in Baghdad. The threat of war was alleviated after both sides realised that an all-out war would only lead to further destruction and neither side, especially Iran, could afford it. Just as the world took a sigh of relief from the global threat of war, there emerged a new threat from China in the form of coronavirus. It did not take long for the novel virus, also called Covid-19, to become a global pandemic, bringing life to a halt across the world and crippling already feeble economies.This was unprecedented in human history. We had heard of lockdowns in specific regions or countries but the entire world had never stopped functioning at once. As of yesterday, the virus has infected more than 4.2 million people worldwide, claiming over 284,000 lives and forcing the rest of the world to stay at home. Doctors and nurses, not soldiers, are on the front lines to fight this invisible enemy. Ventilators and protective gears, not military equipment, are needed to save human lives. Welfare programmes, not defence deals, are keeping the poor from dying of hunger.The war mongering has been forgotten against the collective good of protecting the humanity from a pandemic. Science and technology are the only saviours and all eyes are on scientists as the world awaits a coronavirus vaccine or a miracle that could end the pandemic.With this pandemic causing widespread implications for the world, it is high time states redefine their priorities. Developing countries, like ours, have to face even worse consequences for they were already struggling with their economies, which can collapse if a vaccine is not discovered soon. The security dilemma has always pushed states towards higher military spending at the cost of development projects. This is evident from data released by Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) last year that the world military expenditure rose to $1.8 trillion in 2018, with defence spending in the US alone increasing by 6.6 per cent. It has been on the rise since US President Donald Trump has been in office. His denial and blame game with China has made the US one of the worst hit countries by coronavirus with the death toll now around 81,000. This forced him to give the mighty $2.2 trillion economic rescue package aiding businesses, workers and healthcare systems.Contrary to this, global health spending stood at just $995 billion in 2019, according to World Health Organisation (WHO), which is in stark contrast with the gigantic military spending. The realpolitik has always cost human development but even the countries that claimed better healthcare facilities could not survive the coronavirus outbreak.It has changed how security was viewed in 21st century. The dimension of human security has received a new meaning. The world is now convinced that human health and safety comes above everything. With travel restrictions and partial to complete lockdowns in many countries, the world has come to realise that defence power is of no use if human lives are in danger. The war mongering has been forgotten against the collective good of protecting the humanity from a pandemic. Science and technology are the only saviours and all eyes are on scientists as the world awaits a coronavirus vaccine or a miracle that could end the pandemic. We could have been a little optimistic had there been more investment in scientific innovations that would have contributed to the global race to find a vaccine but the current helplessness on the part of the world is disheartening, to say the least.We are not sure how long it will take for the world to recover from this shock but once life gets back to normal, states would have to reconsider their previous protectionist policies and enhance their cooperation through increased trade to overcome the losses incurred to the economies. In crises like these, the importance of international organisations, international financial institutions and INGOs, has also been gauged as they have stepped forward in helping the world overcome the crisis and preventing an economic collapse.This can be seen as the revival of liberal order for there is and will be an increased demand of cooperation, communication and integrated technologies during and after Covid-19 pandemic. This means the nationalist and populist sentiments that had been on the rise would have to be put aside with states investing more in human security, environment protection and development.These are testing times and a part of the challenge emerges due to security-centric nature of states having long prioritised hard power over development. Among the many lessons this pandemic has taught us is that war is not the only threat to countries. If only states understand this in future and be better prepared to protect their people from unconventional threats."
