Author,Title,PubDate,content
Web Desk,Eagles WR DeSean Jackson apologizes for anti-Semitic post,2020-07-08,"PHILADELPHIA: Philadelphia Eagles wide receiver DeSean Jackson has apologized after backlash for sharing anti-Semitic posts on social media over the weekend.Jackson initially posted a screenshot of a quote widely attributed to Adolf Hitler, saying in part: “Jews will blackmail America.” In another post, Jackson showed support for Louis Farrakhan, the Nation of Islam leader who is known for anti-Semitic rhetoric.“My post was definitely not intended for anybody of any race to feel any type of way, especially the Jewish community,” Jackson said in a video he posted on Instagram on Tuesday. “I post things on my story all the time, and just probably never should have posted anything Hitler did, because Hitler was a bad person, and I know that.”The team issued the following statement: “We have spoken with DeSean Jackson about his social media posts. Regardless of his intentions, the messages he shared were offensive, harmful, and absolutely appalling. They have no place in our society and are not condoned or supported in any way by the organization. We are disappointed and we reiterated to DeSean the importance of not only apologizing but also using his platform to take action to promote unity, equality, and respect. We are continuing to evaluate the circumstances and are committed to continuing to have productive and meaningful conversations with DeSean, as well as all of our players and staff, in order to educate, learn, and grow.”The NFL also issued a statement, saying: “DeSean’s comments were highly inappropriate, offensive and divisive and stand in stark contrast to the NFL’s values of respect, equality and inclusion. We have been in contact with the team which is addressing the matter with DeSean.”Jackson, a three-time Pro Bowl pick, is in his second stint in Philadelphia, returning last season to the team that drafted him in the second round of the 2008 draft.Former Eagles president Joe Banner criticized Jackson on Twitter. Banner wrote: “If a white player said anything about (African-Americans) as outrageous as what Desean Jackson said about Jews tonight there would at least be a serious conversation about cutting him and a need for a team meeting to discuss. Which would be totally appropriate. Absolutely indefensible.”Banner, who also worked for Cleveland and Atlanta, later shared an anti-Palestinian tweet with the hashtag “Palestinianprivilege getting away with murder.”"
Web Desk,Eagles WR DeSean Jackson apologizes for anti-Semitic post,2020-07-08,"PHILADELPHIA: Philadelphia Eagles wide receiver DeSean Jackson has apologized after backlash for sharing anti-Semitic posts on social media over the weekend.Jackson initially posted a screenshot of a quote widely attributed to Adolf Hitler, saying in part: “Jews will blackmail America.” In another post, Jackson showed support for Louis Farrakhan, the Nation of Islam leader who is known for anti-Semitic rhetoric.“My post was definitely not intended for anybody of any race to feel any type of way, especially the Jewish community,” Jackson said in a video he posted on Instagram on Tuesday. “I post things on my story all the time, and just probably never should have posted anything Hitler did, because Hitler was a bad person, and I know that.”The team issued the following statement: “We have spoken with DeSean Jackson about his social media posts. Regardless of his intentions, the messages he shared were offensive, harmful, and absolutely appalling. They have no place in our society and are not condoned or supported in any way by the organization. We are disappointed and we reiterated to DeSean the importance of not only apologizing but also using his platform to take action to promote unity, equality, and respect. We are continuing to evaluate the circumstances and are committed to continuing to have productive and meaningful conversations with DeSean, as well as all of our players and staff, in order to educate, learn, and grow.”The NFL also issued a statement, saying: “DeSean’s comments were highly inappropriate, offensive and divisive and stand in stark contrast to the NFL’s values of respect, equality and inclusion. We have been in contact with the team which is addressing the matter with DeSean.”Jackson, a three-time Pro Bowl pick, is in his second stint in Philadelphia, returning last season to the team that drafted him in the second round of the 2008 draft.Former Eagles president Joe Banner criticized Jackson on Twitter. Banner wrote: “If a white player said anything about (African-Americans) as outrageous as what Desean Jackson said about Jews tonight there would at least be a serious conversation about cutting him and a need for a team meeting to discuss. Which would be totally appropriate. Absolutely indefensible.”Banner, who also worked for Cleveland and Atlanta, later shared an anti-Palestinian tweet with the hashtag “Palestinianprivilege getting away with murder.”"
Web Desk,Int’l Kabaddi tournament to be held in Pakistan in December,2020-07-07,"ISLAMABAD: International Kabaddi tournament will be held in Pakistan in December this year, provided Corona pandemic comes under control.In an interview, Secretary Pakistan Kabaddi Federation, Mohammad Sarwar Rana said six countries including host Pakistan, India, Afghanistan, Iran, Canada and Australia will take part in the event, in which one more team may be added later. He said consent from all participating teams has been received."
Web Desk,"ECB confirms schedule for Pakistan, Ireland visits",2020-07-07,"LONDON: England have confirmed Emirates Old Trafford and the Ageas Bowl as the venues for fixtures against Ireland and Pakistan this summer. Ireland will visit later this month for three ODIs, while Pakistan have already arrived in the country ahead of Test and T20I series.The ECB has been working to salvage as much of its home international programme as possible after the Covid-19 shutdown, and said that discussions remained ongoing about the possibility of Australia touring, and a proposed women’s tri-series featuring England, India and South Africa.Ireland had been due to play their series, part of the World Cup Super League, in September but agreed to move the games forward, with all three ODIs to be held behind closed doors in Southampton from July 30 to August 4.The first Test against Pakistan will begin a day later in Manchester, with the teams then moving down to Southampton for the second and third matches at the Ageas Bowl, starting on August 13 and 21. They will return to Manchester for T20Is at Emirates Old Trafford on August 28, 30 and September 1.“Confirmation of these matches against Ireland and Pakistan is another important step for our game as we begin to safely stage international cricket again, but also to minimise the impact the Covid-19 pandemic has had, and will continue to have, on cricket at all levels,” ECB chief executive Tom Harrison said.“It has taken significant effort and expertise to allow us to reach a position where cricket is now ready and able to return to the field of play from the elite level to recreational cricket.“We owe a significant debt of gratitude to the players, staff and administrators of the Cricket West Indies, Cricket Ireland, and the Pakistan Cricket Board for their willingness and co-operation to get international cricket back up and running and allow these matches to be staged.“Sports fans across the world will benefit as international cricket returns to our screens while it will also provide much-needed financial aid at all levels of cricket in England and Wales as we aim to withstand the challenges in front of us.“It must be reiterated that there is still much work for the ECB and the cricket network to do as we try to plot a path through this pandemic. Chief amongst our priorities is to build on our commitment to support and grow women’s cricket and at the elite level discussions continue to progress to determine the best and safest way to host a tri-series against India and South Africa.“We also continue to explore options for our England men to play white-ball series against Australia this summer and hope to have news on those series soon.”The majority of Pakistan’s 29-man squad flew to the UK in late June, despite disruption caused by a number of positive Covid-19 tests. Ten players did not take the initial flight, but all but one have now returned the two negative tests required to participate in the tour.Like West Indies and Pakistan, Ireland’s players are expected to given an ‘opt out’ by the selectors in case any have concerns about Covid-19 in the UK."
Web Desk,"As relegation battle looms, tensions mount high in Premier League",2020-07-07,"LONDON: Tensions are high as the fight to avoid relegation heads towards a dramatic conclusion in the English Premier League with only a few games left to go.With just five games left, rock bottom Norwich are seven points from safety and are sliding towards the Championship.Bournemouth and Aston Villa, who currently fill the remaining two places in the relegation zone, are locked in a four-team battle for survival with fellow strugglers Watford and West Ham.Here’s a closer look at the teams scrapping to preserve their top-flight status:BOURNEMOUTHThrashed 5-2 at Manchester United on Saturday, Eddie Howe´s side are in free-fall after an eight-game winless run featuring five successive defeats.The second bottom Cherries, one point from safety, face Tottenham, Leicester and Manchester City in their next three games.That sequence that will surely determine whether Bournemouth can extend their five-season stay in the top-flight for another year.Bournemouth’s lack of goals has been a huge part of their downfall, with the starting line-up at Old Trafford managing just eight between them so far this season.“Games are running out. If we´re going to stay in the division, we’re going to have to start picking up points,” Bournemouth winger Junior Stanislas said.“We’ll have no excuses. We can´t keep talking. It´s time for action.“There’s no reason why from now until the end of the season we can´t pick points up.”ASTON VILLAA wretched run of nine matches without a win has left third bottom Villa one point from safety.Dubious pre-season investment in several underwhelming signings have left Villa relying on captain Jack Grealish to inspire their survival bid.But Dean Smith’s side have lost three of their five games since the restart and still have to face Manchester United and Arsenal before a potential final-day shootout with West Ham.They could count themselves unfortunate not to have secured what would have been a point at Anfield in Sunday’s 2-0 defeat against champions Liverpool.That obdurate display offered hope that Villa could still avoid an immediate return to the Championship, but Smith knows they will have to be more ruthless to achieve that aim.“I don’t want to be a valiant loser, we´re scrapping for points,” Smith said.“To out-shoot Liverpool at home at Anfield, in terms of efforts on goal, it’s excellent, but we need to take our opportunities. We never found the quality in the final third they did.”WATFORDSaturday’s 3-0 drubbing at Chelsea condemned Watford to a third consecutive loss, leaving them perilously positioned one point above the bottom three.Nigel Pearson’s fourth bottom team have not won just their stunning 3-0 success against Liverpool on February 29.After five years in the top-flight, the Hornets, who face Manchester City and Arsenal in their last two games, could find their fate settled by Tuesday’s home clash with Norwich and a visit to West Ham on July 17.“The important thing is we understand our situation, that we don’t fear it,” said Pearson, whose men have managed just two goals in their last five games.“We need to show fighting spirit, and we also need to have the ability to still make good decisions.”WEST HAMSitting four clear of the relegation zone in 16th place, West Ham are in the best position to stay up thanks to their surprise 3-2 win over Chelsea last week.Twice blowing the lead in Sunday’s 2-2 draw at Newcastle was a setback in their survival bid, but David Moyes´ side have control of their own destiny.West Ham have now lost 24 points from winning positions in the Premier League this season, more than any other side.But with games against Norwich, Watford and Aston Villa to come, their forward Michail Antonio is confident of beating the drop.“The mindset for our next few games is that we want three points from each of them, and that’s what we believe we can get,” said Antonio, whose club have not been in the Championship since 2012.“Now we’ve managed to show our attacking form and we are scoring goals, we need to shore up our back as well.”"
Web Desk,"Chelsea, Manchester United win as battle for Premier League top four heats up",2020-07-05,"LONDON: Chelsea beat Watford 3-0 on Saturday to hold on to their place in the Premier League’s top four after Manchester United briefly powered past with a 5-2 rout of struggling Bournemouth.Third-placed Leicester also got back on track with Jamie Vardy reaching 100 top-flight goals in a comfortable 3-0 win against Crystal Palace, while Arsenal dealt a blow to Wolves’ Champions League chase by winning 2-0 at Molineux on Saturday.United’s fearsome front four of Marcus Rashford, Anthony Martial, Bruno Fernandes and Mason Greenwood, who netted twice, were all on the scoresheet as Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men hit five goals in a home Premier League game for the first time since 2011.“Confidence is sky high. You get energy and confidence by performances and results and we are getting that at the minute,” said Solskjaer, who is feeling the benefits of a 16-match unbeaten run.“I have enjoyed the last few games to be honest and it is healthy. You don’t age as quickly!”Bournemouth are moving fast in the other direction as they remain second bottom and the Cherries’ defensive problems were quickly exposed after they took a shock 16th-minute lead through Junior Stanislas.Greenwood got the comeback started as he smashed home from Fernandes´s pass before Rashford, from the penalty spot and Martial, with a stunning shot into the top corner, scored their 20th goals of the season,“Mason is one of the best if not the best finisher I have worked with and seen,” added Solskjaer. “He is so calm. He knows where to finish if it is on the training ground, here or in his garden at home.”Bournemouth were given hope when Josh King scored from the spot after Eric Bailly handled inside his own box just four minutes after coming on as a half-time substitute.But there was no stopping Solskjaer’s men going forward and Greenwood restored their two-goal cushion with another powerful drive, this time on his weaker right foot, before Fernandes then capped another influential display with a fine free-kick.Chelsea shrugged off a shock 3-2 defeat at West Ham in midweek with a routine win at Stamford Bridge.Olivier Giroud was recalled up front and repaid Frank Lampard with a smart finish to break the deadlock before Willian´s penalty made it 2-0 before half-time.Ross Barkley added the third in stoppage time to move Chelsea back two points ahead of fifth-placed United.A third defeat in four games since the restart leaves Watford still just one point above Bournemouth and Aston Villa in the battle to beat the drop.Arsenal kept their hopes of European football next season alive moved by ending Wolves’ eight-game unbeaten run in impressive fashion to move up to seventh.Bukayo Saka celebrated signing a new long-term deal this week by hooking in the opener just before half-time and Alexandre Lacazette came off the bench to seal all three points for Mikel Arteta´s men four minutes from time.“Every game you have no margin for error, we know that we try to win every game,” said Arteta of Arsenal’s top-four chances.Defeat leaves Wolves five points behind Chelsea."
Web Desk,Sri Lanka minister offers ICC evidence to prove World Cup 2011 was fixed,2020-07-05,"COLOMBO: Former Sri Lankan sports minister Mahindananda Aluthgamage has said he has more evidence to International Cricket Council (ICC) that he says shows the 2011 World Cup was fixed.Aluthgamage’s remarks come a day after local police dropped an investigation into the claims, citing a lack of evidence that Sri Lanka deliberately lost the final to hosts India.Police had grilled former chief selector Aravinda de Silva, opening batsman Upul Tharanga and the 2011 captain Kumar Sangakkara — the latter for nearly 10 hours.But Aluthgamage, who was sports minister at the time and is now state minister for energy, said there were “powerful people who are spending huge sums of money to hush up the investigation”.He said that he has informed Alex Marshall, anti-corruption chief at the International Cricket Council (ICC), that he was ready to provide more evidence showing the match was thrown.Aluthgamage said police had failed to probe the claims properly and urged Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa to intervene and pressure the ICC to reopen an investigation.Marshall had said in a statement on Friday that “at this time” the ICC has “not been presented with any evidence that supports the claims made or which would merit launching an investigation”.But he said that the ICC takes “allegations of this nature extremely seriously and should we receive any evidence to corroborate the claims, we will review our current position.”Sri Lankan police have not publicly responded to Aluthgamage´s claims.The questioning of the nation’s cricketing heroes triggered criticism against the government on social media ahead of elections on August 5 when Rajapaksa’s party is hoping to secure a two-thirds majority in parliament."
Web Desk,Conflict of interest complaint against Virat Kohli,2020-07-05,"MUMBAI: A conflict of interest complaint has been filed against Virat Kohli for his positions in two business ventures.Complainant Sanjeev Gupta, a life member of the Madhya Pradesh Cricket Association, wrote an email to BCCI ethics officer-cum-ombudsman Justice (r) DK Jain and a number of BCCI executives, including president Sourav Ganguly and CEO Rahul Johri, arguing that Kohli’s various posts were in violation of the BCCI constitution. In his complaint filed on July 4, Gupta said that Kohli’s co-directors at Virat Kohli Sports (LLP) and Cornerstone Venture Partners (LLP) were also directors in Cornerstone Sport and Entertainment Private Limited, a talent agency that contracts Indian cricketers and handles their branding and commercial interests. Justice Jain said he was examining the complaint.“Shri Virat Kohli is occupying two posts at a time in blatant violation to BCCI Rule 38 (4) approved by Supreme Court of India. As such, he must relinquish his one post at once in compliance. His two posts are covered as under: A – 38(4)(a) – Player and B – 38(4)(o) – Contractual Entity, to be read with BCCI Rule 38(1) (iii),” Gupta’s complaint said.Rule 38(4) of the BCCI constitution prevents individuals from holding more than one of 16 posts: player (current), selector/member of cricket committee, team official, commentator, match official, administrator/office bearer, electoral officer, ombudsman & ethics officer, auditor, any person who is governance, management or employee of a franchisee, member of a standing committee, CEO & managers, office Bearer of a Member (state association), service provider (legal, financial etc.), contractual entity (broadcast, security, contractor etc.) and owner of cricket academy.“I have received a complaint,” Justice Jain told PTI on Sunday. “I will examine it and then see if the case is made out or not. If yes, then I have to afford an opportunity to him (Kohli) to respond.”Gupta had previously filed conflict of interest complaints against Sachin Tendulkar and VVS Laxman and also Rahul Dravid. In each of those instances, the ethics officer had served notices based on the complaints, but the former cricketers were eventually cleared."
Web Desk,"England stick with Denly, no room for Bairstow, Moeen Ali in Test squad",2020-07-04,"LONDON: England have opted for continuity ahead of the first Test against West Indies, with every member of their 13-man squad having featured on the tour of South Africa earlier this year. That means Joe Denly is set to retain his place in the batting line-up, while the main decisions will revolve around the make-up of the pace attack.Jofra Archer and Mark Wood, both of whom impressed during England’s warm-up game this week, maybe vying for one place, while Chris Woakes is the allrounder option in support of James Anderson and Stuart Broad. Sam Curran, who tested negative for Covid-19 after feeling unwell during the match, is among the nine reserves who will remain with the squad at the Ageas Bowl.Most noteworthy among those missing out were Jonny Bairstow and Moeen Ali, senior members of England’s white-ball squads but overlooked for the Tests. Bairstow had been a contender to come into the side in the absence of Joe Root, England’s Test captain who is missing the game in order to attend the birth of his child, but only managed scores of 11 and 39 in the three-day warm-up; James Bracey and Dan Lawrence, who both caught the eye with half-centuries, have been retained as the back-up batsmen.Dom Bess remains at the head of the pack among England’s spinners, keeping out Jack Leach, who is among the reserves, and Moeen. Bess claimed 3 for 72 in his outings for Team Buttler, while Leach and Moeen went wicketless for Team Stokes in the first innings and then conceded runs at six an over in the second.With Root having already left the camp, and Ben Stokes in line to become England’s 81st Test captain, the selectors have stuck with familiar names for the first of three matches in three weeks against West Indies. Rory Burns returns, having suffered ankle-ligament damage while playing football in South Africa, and seems set to open alongside Dom Sibley, with Denly and Zak Crawley the options to cover for Root’s absence at No. 4.Ollie Pope and Stokes will complete the batting line-up, while Jos Buttler retains the gloves, as head coach Chris Silverwood hinted during the week, with Ben Foakes retained as back-up keeper.In the fast-bowling department, England have Archer and Wood available to provide extra pace – but while there may be a temptation to deploy them together in Test cricket for the first time, Silverwood has previously hinted that they will likely be rotated in order to protect both from wear and tear. Archer has only recently recovered from an elbow stress fracture, having missed three Tests in South Africa and been omitted from the touring party for Sri Lanka in March.Although Broad went wicketless in the Ageas Bowl warm-up, he has been the automatic pick to partner Anderson with the new ball – currently on a run of 51 consecutive Test appearances at home – but Woakes will also have the chance to press his case.With the likelihood that England will have to rotate their seamers in order to keep them fresh – there are only three-day gaps between the Tests – the reserves include two uncapped quicks in Saqib Mahmood and Ollie Robinson, alongside Craig Overton and Olly Stone, who stays on despite not being fit enough to bowl in the warm-up game because of hamstring trouble."
Web Desk,Sri Lanka drops probe into 2011 World Cup final fixing allegations,2020-07-04,"COLOMBO: Sri Lankan authorities have said they are dropping a probe into match-fixing allegations surrounding the 2011 ICC World Cup final, saying they found no evidence of match-fixing by players.The world governing body of the sport, the International Cricket Council (ICC) said it had also looked into the recent allegations and found no reason to doubt the integrity of 2011 final, won by India.Former chief selector Aravinda de Silva, and the team’s skipper Kumar Sangakkara and opening batsman Upul Tharanga were questioned this week over suspicions that have dogged the match for years.“We are satisfied with their explanation,” a top police official told AFP. “The inquiry is now closed.”Sri Lanka’s four changes to the team just before the finals at Mumbai’s Wankhede stadium were raised as suspicious by a Sri Lankan minister, Mahindananda Aluthgamage last month. He was the minister of sports in 2011.The officer said police had spoken to the players and the chief selector.“They had reasonable explanations about the changes that were made to the final squad,” the officer said. “We found no evidence of any wrongdoing.”However, the ICC said it was willing to review its findings if presented with credible evidence.“We take all allegations of this nature extremely seriously and should we receive any evidence to corroborate the claims, we will review our current position,” ICC anti-corruption chief Alex Marshall said in a statement.“If anyone has any evidence that this match or any other has been subject to match-fixing, we would urge them to get in contact with the ICC Integrity team.”The sudden decision to end the Sri Lankan police investigators came after the 2011 team’s vice captain Mahela Jayawardena went to the Special Investigation Unit (SIU) office to give a statement.“We will give our maximum cooperation,” Jayawardena told reporters before leaving the SIU when officers refused to accept his testimony and told him to return later.Jayawardena had been called in after Sangakkara was grilled for nearly 10 hours by detectives on Thursday.POLITICAL BACKLASHThe investigation has led to a social media backlash against the government which is facing a parliamentary election on August 5.Opposition legislator Bimal Rathnayake poked fun at the police over the marathon grilling of Sangakkara, who is also president of England´s prestigious Marylebone Cricket Club.He tweeted that a 50-over cricket match lasts around 7-8 hours, even if all 100 overs are bowled, adding: “Committee questioned Sanga for 9 hours! Did they question him ball by ball?”Sri Lanka’s Opposition leader Sajith Premadasa said police dropped the high-profile match fixing probe following the social media and political backlash.“Magic of ‘People Power’ has worked,” Premadasa said on Twitter. “Sri Lanka’s government has ultimately succumbed to public pressure and abruptly withdrawn the bogus, manipulated and politically motivated investigation… Bravo people of Sri Lanka!”Another former sports minister Harin Fernando, who introduced anti-corruption laws in November, said Aluthgamage should be prosecuted for making a false allegation against cricket legends.Match-fixing was made a criminal offence in the new law. Offenders face fines of up to 100 million rupees ($555,000) and up to 10 years’ jail.Aluthgamage faced a widespread backlash in the cricket-mad country for implicating former players in match fixingThere was no immediate comment from Aluthgamage over the cancellation of the investigation."
Web Desk,Pakistan cricket squad undergoes Covid-19 testing in England,2020-06-29,"LAHORE: Pakistan cricket team after reaching England has undergone Covid-19 testing on Monday at Worcestershire.“After landing in Manchester the squad travelled via bus to reach Worcestershire,” said a spokesman of the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) here.England and Wales Cricket Board medical penal conducted the Corona Virus tests of twenty players and twelve team officials who reached England in the first phase for playing three tests and a similar number of T20 games against the English side.Pakistan cricket teams bowling coach Waqar Younis who reached England from Australia to join the team was also tested for Covid-19."
Web Desk,CSA gets green light to resume training,2020-06-29,"JOHANNESBURG: Cricket South Africa’s (CSA) return-to-train-and-play plans have been approved by the country’s sports ministry and the organisation will meet on Thursday to plot its course back to action. ESPNcricinfo understands that CSA’s focus will be on getting the national men’s and women’s teams back in action, though franchise and provincial players will continue to wait before they can begin pre-season camps. A new date for the 3TC competition – a format in which three teams will play in the same game – is not expected imminently.Last week, CSA was forced to postpone the 3TC exhibition event, originally scheduled for June 27, because it had yet to receive the government’s green light to train or play. CSA needed both the sports and health ministry’s permission because it hoped the match would take place at SuperSport Park, in Centurion, a coronavirus hotspot. With infections rising as South Africa heads towards its peak (predicted to occur between July and September), CSA may consider an alternative venue for the fixture. One source said CSA would require players to have at least seven days of training before rescheduling the 3TC match.This means that for now, CSA’s top priority will be to ensure its national player groups return to organised sessions, especially as they have been out of action for more three months. There has been no cricket in South Africa since March 15, when the group stage of the domestic one-day cup was completed. The playoffs and final did not take place. At the time, South Africa’s men’s team was in India playing a three-match ODI series. After one rained-off fixture, the team returned home. South Africa went into strict lockdown on March 27 which meant the women’s home series against Australia had to be postponed. The women’s team will also not travel to play against West Indies. The men’s team has had its white-ball tour of Sri Lanka, which was due to take place this month, put back and next month’s two-Test, five T20I trip to the Caribbean will, at best, be delayed by several weeks.South Africa are also hopeful of hosting India for three T20Is in August but have made provision for those fixtures to take place later in the home summer, as far forward as March 2021.All CSA’s other plans for its national sides will depend on when the ICC makes a decision regarding the T20 World Cup and 2021 Women’s World Cup. The organisation is hopeful of discussing elements of the Future Tours Program at its Thursday meeting."
Web Desk,Depleted Pakistan squad leaves for England tour,2020-06-28,"LAHORE: A depleted Pakistan squad left for the tour of England on Sunday to play three Tests and as many T20Is after half the players and some members of the support staff tested positive for the coronavirus.Pakistan’s T20 captain Babar Azam tweeted a picture of some of the players from the plane.Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) chief executive Wasim Khan on Saturday said the players left behind can rejoin the squad of 18 players once they have taken two negative tests.“Eighteen players who had tested negative in their first round of testing have again tested negative as have 11 officials from the team management,” said Khan.Players Shadab Khan, Haris Rauf, Haider Ali, Fakhar Zaman, Mohammad Rizwan, Wahab Riaz, Imran Khan, Mohammad Hafeez, Mohammad Hasnain and Kashif Bhatti first tested positive earlier this week.Of these, four players were such that tested positive both times — Kashif,Haris, Haider and Imran, whereas the remaining six — Hasnain, Shadab, Fakhar, Rizwan, Wahab and Hafeez — tested negative the second time around.The team’s masseur Malang Ali tested positive twice.Khan said that in England, the team will once more undergo testing within the first 24 hours of arrival. “No questions have been raised by England over our testing methods,” he said.He added that bowling coach Waqar Younis underwent testing in Australia and has been diagnosed negative. Younis will fly for England from there, he added.Of the five reserve players, he said four — Moosa Khan, Rohail Nazir, BilalAsif and Mohammad Nawaz — had tested negative and one — Imran Butt — had tested positive.Waseem said Zafar Gohar will also join the team in England. “He has only been called for practice,” he added.Pakistan’s 20-man advance group lands on Sunday afternoon in Manchester and will undergo a 14-day quarantine period at New Road, Worcestershire before transferring to Derbyshire’s County Ground on July 13. Another batch of players that include Wahab Riaz, Shadab Khan will join the squad in the next 10 days if they receive a second negative result for Covid-19. The tour comprises three Test matches starting in the first week of August and three T20Is stretching into September. All six games will be played behind closed doors.It is expected that the first Test will take place in Manchester in August but the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) said the behind-closed-doors match schedule would be announced in “due course”.Squad flying off on Sunday includes Azhar Ali (Test captain), Babar Azam (T20 captain), Abid Ali, Imam-ul-Haq, Shan Masood, Asad Shafiq, Fawad Alam, Iftikhar Ahmad, Khushdil Shah, Sarfaraz Ahmed, Faheem Ashraf, Mohammad Abbas, Naseem Shah, Shaheen Afridi, Sohail Khan, Usman Shinwari, Imad Wasim, and Yasir Shah.Reserve players Rohail Nazir and Musa Khan will also fly out."
Web Desk,10 players left out of Pakistan squad for England tour over coronavirus: PCB,2020-06-27,"LAHORE: Pakistan’s cricket team will leave for its tour of England on Sunday without 10 players, after they tested positive for coronavirus at least once this week, the Pakistan Cricket Board has said.The board’s chief executive Wasim Khan, in a video conference with the media on Saturday, said that players and officials underwent two rounds of testing.“Eighteen players who had tested negative in their first round of testing have again tested negative as have 11 officials from the team management,” said Wasim.Players Shadab Khan, Haris Rauf, Haider Ali, Fakhar Zaman, Mohammad Rizwan, Wahab Riaz, Imran Khan, Mohammad Hafeez, Mohammad Hasnain and Kashif Bhatti first tested positive earlier this week.Of these, four players were such that tested positive both times — Kashif, Haris, Haider and Imran, whereas the remaining six — Hasnain, Shadab, Fakhar, Rizwan, Wahab and Hafeez — tested negative the second time around.Wasim went on to say that the six players, despite having tested negative the second time around, will not be going to England, bringing the total number of players dropped from the squad to 10.The team’s masseur Malang Ali tested positive twice.Waseem said that in England, the team will once more undergo testing within the first 24 hours of arrival.“No questions have been raised by England over our testing methods,” he said.Waseem said that bowling coach Waqar Younis underwent testing in Australia and has been diagnosed negative. Younis will fly for England from there, he added.He said the players left behind “have not been abandoned” and can rejoin the squad of 18 players once they have taken two negative tests.Of the five reserve players, he said four — Moosa Khan, Rohail Nazir, Bilal Asif and Mohammad Nawaz — had tested negative and one — Imran Butt — had tested positive.Waseem said Zafar Gohar will also join the team in England. “He has only been called for practice,” he added.The PCB subsequently announced the 20-player side in a statement, with Azhar Ali to lead the squad and Babar Azam named as vice-captain.Pakistan’s tour of England is set to include three Tests and three Twenty20 internationals.The squad will have a 14-day isolation period on arrival before continuing their preparations ahead of the first Test with two internal four-day warm-up matches.It is expected that the first Test will take place in Manchester in August but the England and Wales Cricket Board said the behind-closed-doors match schedule would be announced in “due course”.Pakistan is experiencing a surge in coronavirus cases, with nearly 200,000 declared cases and more than 4,000 deaths, while cases are falling in Britain."
Web Desk,Hafeez negates PCB’s announcement of Covid-19 positive result,2020-06-24,"LONDON: Mohammad Hafeez has tested negative in a private test for Covid-19, a day after a PCB test result showed up as positive. On Tuesday, Hafeez was announced as one of ten Pakistan players in total who tested positive for the virus after testing carried out on the entire 29-man squad due to fly out to England on June 28.Hafeez, however, conducted a private test at a different lab in Lahore for a “second opinion” for him and his family. That result, he said in a tweet, was negative for him and his family.Hafeez had his second test done by the Chugtai Laboratory, whereas all the PCB’s tests were conducted by Shaukat Khanum Laboratory.In practice, Hafeez’s new result has no immediate impact on plans for the next few days. All players in the squad are due to undergo a further round of testing: those players whose results were negative in the first round will all undergo second tests in Lahore on June 25 in a bio-secure environment at the hotel they are in.A PCB statement on Tuesday had said that players who tested positive “will observe self-isolation in their homes and remain under strict monitoring of the PCB medical panel. As soon as they will complete their minimum quarantine period, they will undergo further testing and after their two tests are negative, they will be flown to England on a commercial airline.”But there was confusion on Wednesday about when the second round of tests would take place of the players who tested positive. The fact that all players who tested positive have not reported any symptoms has made matters trickier, especially in terms of how long a “minimum quarantine period” should be. There was a suggestion their testing might happen before the team’s departure, which would require a player who tested positive to test negative twice before he was cleared to travel.It is not clear whether Hafeez had informed the board that he was getting himself tested privately, a move which, in effectively breaking ranks, means the matter could become a disciplinary issue."
Web Desk,"One positive in latest Premier League Covid-19 tests, total now 18",2020-06-23,"LONDON: The Premier League said on Monday that there was one more positive result from the latest round of Covid-19 tests of players and staff conducted last week, taking the total number of cases to 18 since testing began last month.The English top flight restarted its season last week after a 100-day hiatus due to the pandemic.“The Premier League can today confirm that between Wednesday 17 June and Sunday 21 June, 1,829 players and club staff were tested for Covid-19,” it said in a statement “Of these, one person has tested positive.”The league did not reveal the club or the name of the individual who tested positive.Since players returned to contact training last month, tests have been carried out twice a week since May 17 and the league has conducted 10 rounds of testing so far."
Web Desk,"Djokovic tests positive for Covid-19, says ‘extremely sorry’ to others",2020-06-23,"BELGRADE: Novak Djokovic, the men’s world number one tennis player, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday and then apologised to all individuals who contracted the virus after playing in an exhibition tournament he organised in Serbia and Croatia.Grigor Dimitrov of Bulgaria, Croatia’s Borna Coric and Viktor Troicki have previously tested positive after playing in Djokovic’s Adria Tour exhibition tournament in the Balkan region.Djokovic’s fitness coach Marco Panichi and Dimitrov’s coach Christian Groh have also tested positive.“The moment we arrived in Belgrade we went to be tested,” Djokovic said in a statement on Tuesday, adding that he was not showing any symptoms. “My result is positive, just as Jelena’s (wife), while the results of our children are negative.“I am extremely sorry for each individual case of infection. I hope that it will not complicate anyone’s health situation and that everyone will be fine. I will remain in self-isolation for the next 14 days, and repeat the test in five days.”The organisers said that the remainder of the Adria Tour had been cancelled, the two-day event on July 3-4 in Banja Luka, Bosnia and the planned exhibition match with Bosnian Damir Dzumhur in Sarajevo on July 5.Serbia has 13,092 registered cases and 263 dead due to the pandemic but both Serbia and Croatia eased lockdown measures weeks before the tournament and players were not obliged to observe social distancing rules in either country.The tournament witnessed packed stands during the opening leg in Belgrade, players hugging at the net, playing basketball, posing for pictures and attending press conferences together.Djokovic, 33, organised nights out in Belgrade for the players and pictures and videos of him dancing with the other participants at his event were posted on social media.“Prayers up to all the players that have contracted Covid- 19,” said Nick Kyrgios, retweeting a video of the players dancing shirtless in Belgrade.“Don’t @ me for anything I’ve done that has been ‘irresponsible’ or classified as ‘stupidity’ – this takes the cake,” said the temperamental Australian, who was placed on probation by the men’s ATP Tour over his behaviour last year."
Web Desk,Seven more Pakistan players test positive for Covid-19,2020-06-23,"LAHORE: Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) has confirmed that seven more cricketers have returned positive tests for Covid-19, taking the total count to ten ahead of their England tour. On Monday, Shadab Khan, Haider Ali, and Haris Rauf had tested positive.The new names on the list are Kashif Bhatti, Mohammad Hasnain, Fakhar Zaman, Mohammad Rizwan, Mohammad Hafeez, Wahab Riaz, and Imran Khan. In addition, the PCB announced one member from the player support personnel had also tested positive for the virus. According to the PCB CEO Wasim Khan, all seven players who tested positive are – like the three who returned positive tests yesterday – asymptomatic. Shoaib Malik, Waqar Younis and Cliffe Deacon have not yet been tested.That means more than one third of the 29-man squad the PCB announced for a three-Test, three-T20I tour of England are currently positive for Covid-19, and will have to self-isolate for 14 days. The PCB CEO Wasim Khan announced plans for the team to travel to England on June 28th remained unchanged. The four reserves Pakistan named for the tour of England – Bilal Asif, Imran Butt, Musa Khan and Mohammad Nawaz – have been called up for testing.“The tour to England is very much on track and the side will depart as per schedule on 28 June,” Wasim Khan said. “Fortunately, all the first-choice red-ball squad, barring Mohammad Rizwan, are negative, which means they can start training and practicing immediately after they have been tested and given the all clear when they arrive in England. As regards the players, who have tested positive, we will continue to monitor and support them, including conducting antibody tests, and as soon as they test negative, they will be flown to join the squad in England. At the moment, they have been advised to go into self-isolation so that they not only recover quickly but also prevent their other family members from being infected.”The PCB announced that all players who tested negative will assemble in a bio-secure environment on June 24 in Lahore, and undergo a second round of testing the following day. All those who test negative in that second round of testing will depart for Manchester on a chartered flight on 28 June, and be tested upon arrival in England. They will then have to quarantine for a period of 14 days in the country in line with government regulations, but will be permitted to train in a bio-secure facility during this time. Those who have tested positive will self-isolate at home for two weeks, and will only depart for England after returning two negative Covid-19 tests.The ECB are understood to be reflecting on the impact of the news in conjunction with their medical team, but remain confident the measures put in place will enable the tour to proceed. In particular, they point out that these tests have been conducted almost 6 weeks ahead of the first Test.Today’s results could well have selection implications for Pakistan, with first-choice wicketkeeper Mohammad Rizwan having tested positive. That boosts the selection prospects of former captain and Karachi native Sarfaraz Ahmed, who was last year removed from captaincy and dropped from all three formats. No player from Karachi returned a positive test, particularly notable since friction between the central government and the provincial government of Sindh – the capital of which is Karachi – prompted the province to impose stricter restrictions than were present in the rest of the country.“The recent positive tests of some of the fittest athletes, who had not shown any symptoms, clearly reflect the danger this virus possesses,” Wasim Khan said. “As such, and on behalf of the PCB, I once again request the public to strictly adhere to all safety precautions as advised and recommended by the federal and provincial governments to ensure their health and safety as well as of their dear and near ones.”Today’s developments further highlight the stark challenges of conducting an international tour in these times, with this not the first time the pandemic has affected Pakistan’s preparations for the tour of England. A fortnight ago, the PCB scrapped plans to host a training camp in Pakistan ahead of the tour, with the rapid growth of cases in the country making it impossible to achieve a bio-secure environment. That necessitated bringing forward the team’s departure to England, with the aim of conducting a camp there, where the virus has passed its peak.Pakistan has seen a surge of Covid-19 cases over the past few weeks, prompting the government to reimpose a partial lockdown earlier this week. The country currently has around 190,000 confirmed cases, which ranks it 13th globally, while it is believed the pandemic has not yet reached its peak.“We are concerned as we see numbers growing in Pakistan. But one thing we do know about England is that there conditions there are massively improving. Shops and restaurants are reopening with social distancing. Once we cancelled our camp in Lahore we were looking to go England earlier,and so we are comfortable with the provisions at the ECB put in place. We will protect our players as much as possible and keep them safe to allow them to practice and play matches in a safe environment.”"
Web Desk,Three players test positive for Covid-19 ahead of England series,2020-06-22,"LAHORE: The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) on Monday said that three players – Haider Ali, Haris Rauf and Shadab Khan – have tested positive for Covid-19.The PCB, in a statement, said: “The players had shown no symptoms until they were tested in Rawalpindi on Sunday ahead of the Pakistan men’s national cricket team’s tour to England.”The PCB medical panel is in contact with the three who have been advised to immediately go into self-isolation.Imad Wasim and Usman Shinwari, also screened in Rawalpindi, have tested negative and, as such, will travel to Lahore on June 24.“The other players and team officials, barring Cliffe Deacon, Shoaib Malik and Waqar Younis, underwent tests at their respective centres in Karachi, Lahore, and Peshawar on Monday,” the statement read.Their results are expected at some stage on Tuesday, which will also be announced by the PCB through its usual channels, the board said."
Web Desk,Three players test positive for Covid-19 ahead of England series,2020-06-22,"LAHORE: The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) on Monday said that three players – Haider Ali, Haris Rauf and Shadab Khan – have tested positive for Covid-19.The PCB, in a statement, said: “The players had shown no symptoms until they were tested in Rawalpindi on Sunday ahead of the Pakistan men’s national cricket team’s tour to England.”The PCB medical panel is in contact with the three who have been advised to immediately go into self-isolation.Imad Wasim and Usman Shinwari, also screened in Rawalpindi, have tested negative and, as such, will travel to Lahore on June 24.“The other players and team officials, barring Cliffe Deacon, Shoaib Malik and Waqar Younis, underwent tests at their respective centres in Karachi, Lahore, and Peshawar on Monday,” the statement read.Their results are expected at some stage on Tuesday, which will also be announced by the PCB through its usual channels, the board said."
Web Desk,"Three Covid-19 tests in a week, then one every five days for Pakistan’s players",2020-06-22,"LAHORE: Pakistan’s players and support staff will be subject to three rounds of Covid-19 testing apart from a host of other precautions before they leave for their England tour.Once in England, the entire touring party will be tested every five days. The PCB medical board admitted that despite the extensive measures due to be undertaken, eliminating risk entirely was not possible. However, the bio-secure bubble that the players will be in should help mitigate concerns. The tour, consisting of three Tests and three T20Is, will begin in August.Dr Sohail Saleem, Pakistan Cricket Board’s (PCB’s) director of sports medicine, said the touring party would have to follow guidelines strictly, and that a combination of safety measures had been worked out to ensure the risk was reduced to the minimum.Between Sunday and Monday, 28 players were tested (minus Shoaib Malik, who will be travelling later), alongside 12 members of the support staff. All of them were tested at their respective homes. Those testing ‘negative’ will move to a five-star hotel in Lahore and remain in isolation, while anyone who tests positive will remain in isolation at home and be provided medical assistance. For those who have not tested positive, a full medical screening and a second Covid-19 test will be carried out on June 25 at the hotel. If someone tests positive on this second test, they will be taken out of the cluster for treatment.Those who have tested negative on both tests will then fly out to Manchester on June 28 on a specially chartered plane from Lahore. Player(s) who test positive can still join the squad, provided they recover after 14 days in isolation and test negative thereafter. They will then be allowed to take a commercial flight to England, where they will be admitted into the bubble that the existing players are in, after following the UK government’s guidelines. All players will be tested again when they land in England.While the backroom staff will also travel with the team, two members – Waqar Younis (bowling coach) and Cliffe Deacon (physiotherapist) – will join the squad directly in England. Younis will fly in from Australia, while Deacon will arrive from South Africa.“It is a big risk,” Saleem said in a video conference. “We can’t really say it’s not a risk. We are trying to build a new normal, redefining etiquette – respiratory marks, hand washing… it is a combination of many thing to make sure that we are keeping safe or reducing the risk factor to the minimum. Cricket isn’t a contact sport. The only source (of contact) is the cricket ball. Two different analyses confirmed that the chances of transmitting the virus through sweat are less, while you cannot use saliva at all.“Thinking that we are moving ahead with a zero per cent viral load, that’s not right. You can control it by precautions and following the WHO guidelines to keep the environment and the people involved clean. There are protocols. During the England tour, players will go through another test (upon landing) and then undergo a test every five days. Going out during a pandemic is a risk, but you have to go by the available research and information, and take whatever precautions to reduce the risk.”All matches during the tour – three Tests and three T20Is – are scheduled to take place behind closed doors. The England Cricket Board (ECB) has come up with extensive plans to keep Pakistan’s players in a bio-secure environment – likely to be in Derbyshire initially – from the moment they land in the country. Players will be allowed to train on a daily basis, but not as a combination, for the first two weeks.All players were briefed verbally about the procedures in place. The PCB was hoping to hold a training camp in Lahore, at the National Cricket Academy (NCA) and Gaddafi Stadium, where a larger squad would reside and train in a completely isolated area, but the camp was scrapped due to the country seeing a spike in Covid-19 cases.“We have spoken with the players before taking their consent,” Saleem said. “Yes, they will be living without families and naturally they will be thinking about their loved ones’ well-being. We have formed a monitoring team to check on families on a daily basis to allay any concerns from the minds of the players. It’s true that we haven’t practically gone through this process, and everything right now is theoretical. But it’s the first time for everyone. Going forward, everyone will eventually have to adapt to the new procedures. I am told the West Indies team (currently in England and subject to the same procedures) were also uncertain at the start but the moment they got in the routine with training, they were fine.“We have been monitoring the football in Europe, baseball in South Korea and now even the English Premier League has also started. So this is a big step for the resumption of cricket. People have been confined at home for over three months, the level of anxiety is increasing. Sport at least provides entertainment and can reduce anxiety. Like doctors fighting on the frontline, these sportsmen in a way are also serving the people.”"
Web Desk,T20 World Cup unlikely to take place this year: Ehsan Mani,2020-06-19,"LAHORE: PCB chairman Ehsan Mani believes it is not “feasible” to host the men’s T20 World Cup in Australia in 2020, and that the tournament is likely to be “deferred” by a year. A final decision on the matter is likely in the next “three-four” weeks.Mani becomes the second senior member sitting on the ICC Board in as many days this week to say that the T20 World Cup, scheduled between October 18 and November 16 in Australia, is unlikely to go ahead this year because of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Tuesday Earl Eddings, Cricket Australia chairman, said that it would be “unrealistic” and “very, very difficult” to expect the event to go ahead as planned, considering the number of infections were still “spiking” in some of the 16 participating countries.“The biggest challenge in Australia – although Australia and New Zealand they have controlled Covid-19 – their governments are very cautious,” Mani said at a virtual media briefing on Wednesday. “If it is played this year they will likely insist it happens in a bio-bubble. Like with the Pakistan team in England, teams come, stay in a hotel, with no crowds. This is okay for one or two teams but when 12-16 teams play in a T20 tournament, it becomes an impossible thing. I don’t think it is feasible today that there is any ICC event in 2020.”Apart from the ICC Board, Mani and Eddings also sit on the global cricket body’s second-most influential wing, the Finance & Commercial Affairs committee. Mani is the F&CA president while Eddings is one of six members on the panel, which also has ICC chairman Shashank Manohar and chief executive Manu Sawhney as ex-officio members.The F&CA committee decides and allocates budgets for each of the world events for both men’s and women’s cricket and also looks after the distribution of money that members get annually from world events,. That has been one of the main concerns for the ICC and has contributed to the body continuing to delay officially postponing the men’s T20 World Cup this year.With members needing clarity on the event in order to work on their own calendars, the ICC Board has already met virtually a few times over the last two months to discuss contingency planning for key world events which also includes the women’s ODI World Cup, scheduled in New Zealand for February-March next year. The Board met last week and is scheduled to do so again on June 25.The ICC is keen to utlise 2022 – in which no ICC event is currently scheduled – within the current events cycle that stretches until the 2023 men’s ODI World Cup. India is scheduled to host that event as well as the 2021 men’s Twenty20 World Cup.However, CA is keen to host the 2021 edition of the event, something Eddings noted in his communication to the F&CA, contents of which were reported in the Times of India. Eddings said that it would be “detrimental to cricket” in case Australia failed to host the T20 World Cup in October-November 2021. He also suggested India would be fit to host the event during the same period in 2022, since it was likely the country would have fully recovered from the pandemic by then.The BCCI is yet to make any public comment on the matter, although it is understood the Indian board is concerned about hosting two back-to-back world events in the space of six months if it were to host the men’s T20 World Cup in October-November 2022, followed by the ODI World Cup, in February-March, 2023.“In my opinion, I think [this year’s event] will probably be deferred for a year,” Mani said. “The ICC has time because ICC events were supposed to happen in 2020, 2021 and 2023. The gap in the middle can be filled and this will be deferred. That is where the talk is headed towards. What event will happen first and where, those talks are happening.“It is a big risk that God forbid, in the middle of a big tournament, if a player gets an infection, the panic from that will be too much so we can’t take that risk.”A number of stakeholders, Mani said, need to be on board, which is why a decision hasn’t been taken in haste. “Cricket boards are one stakeholder,” he said. “Another stakeholder is the broadcaster – Star is the broadcaster, they will see their position, what is better for them. Other than Full Members, associates also get money from ICC events so discussions are on with as to what their priorities are.“But you’ll see that in the next three-four weeks a decision will be taken on this. There is a conference call next week. We’ve had four-five con calls on this in the last month. Obviously a decision will have to be made about where the first event will be. Right now it was to be Australia, then India and then a gap of one year and then India for the World Cup. Now we have to see whether it will be Australia first, or India, to see who will host in 2022.”"
Web Desk,Sri Lanka ‘sold’ 2011 cricket World Cup final: minister,2020-06-18,"COLOMBO: Sri Lanka “sold” the 2011 World Cup final to India, the country’s former sports minister said on Thursday, reviving one of cricket’s most explosive match-fixing controversies.Mahindananda Aluthgamage, who was sports minister at the time, is the second senior figure to allege the final was fixed, after 1996 World Cup-winning skipper Arjuna Ranatunga.“I tell you today that we sold the 2011 World Cup finals,” Aluthgamage told Sirasa TV. “Even when I was sports minister I believed this.”Aluthgamage, sports minister from 2010 to 2015 and now state minister for renewable energy and power, said he “did not want to disclose” the plot at the time.“In 2011, we were to win, but we sold the match. I feel I can talk about it now. I am not connecting players, but some sections were involved,” he said.Sri Lanka lost the match at Mumbai’s Wankhede stadium by six wickets. Indian players have strongly denied any wrongdoing.Ranatunga, who was at the stadium as a commentator, has previously called for an investigation into the defeat.“When we lost, I was distressed and I had a doubt,” he said in July 2017. “We must investigate what happened to Sri Lanka at the 2011 World Cup final.”“I cannot reveal everything now, but one day I will. There must be an inquiry,” added Ranatunga, who said players could not hide the “dirt”.Sri Lanka batted first and scored 274-6 off 50 overs. They appeared in a commanding position when Indian superstar Sachin Tendulkar was out for 18.But India turned the game dramatically, thanks partly to poor fielding and bowling by Sri Lanka, who were led by Kumar Sangakkara.Sri Lankan cricket has regularly been involved in corruption controversies, including claims of match-fixing ahead of a 2018 Test against England.Earlier this month, the Sri Lankan cricket board said the International Cricket Council (ICC) was investigating three unnamed former players over alleged corruption.Sri Lanka introduced tough penalties for match-fixing and tightened sports betting restrictions in November in a bid to stamp out graft.Another former sports minister, Harin Fernando, has said Sri Lankan cricket was riddled with graft “from top to bottom”, and that the ICC considered Sri Lanka one of the world’s most corrupt nations.Former Sri Lankan fast bowler Dilhara Lokuhettige was suspended in 2018 for corruption relating to a limited-overs league.He was the third Sri Lankan charged under the ICC anti-corruption code, following former captain and ex-chief selector Sanath Jayasuriya, and former paceman Nuwan Zoysa.Jayasuriya was found guilty of failing to cooperate with a match-fixing probe and banned for two years. Zoysa was suspended for match-fixing."
Web Desk,Beijing virus outbreak deals further blow to Chinese Super League,2020-06-18,"BEIJING: The delayed Chinese Super League (CSL) season is “shrouded in uncertainty”, state media warned on Thursday, as a fresh coronavirus outbreak in Beijing throws the campaign into even further doubt. The CSL in January became one of the first sporting casualties of coronavirus when its February 22 start date was postponed indefinitely.Football leagues in many countries have resumed in recent weeks behind closed doors and the Chinese Basketball Association season will restart on Saturday, also without fans.But the Chinese Football Association (CFA) is yet to get its epidemic control plans approved by the government’s highest sports authority and a start date remains elusive.Time is running out because the CFA is determined to hold the season during a calendar year.“The CFA is actively preparing for the resumption of the professional football leagues,” a CFA spokesman told the Global Times in a story headlined: “Return of Chinese Super League still shrouded in uncertainty.”The spokesman added: “A fundamental principle is that we won’t have a season in split years.”State media previously said that the CSL would begin in late June or early July, but the middle of next month now looks the earliest possible date.However, a new outbreak in the capital Beijing has renewed concerns of a “second wave” in the country where the pandemic emerged late last year.“The new coronavirus outbreak in Fengtai district of Beijing in June may further cloud the restart of the league,” Global Times said, adding that last season’s CSL runners-up Beijing Guoan have been training in the same district.The squad — whose French coach Bruno Genesio has been unable to return to China because of coronavirus travel restrictions — will take some time off before reassembling at a different location, Beijing Youth Daily said."
Web Desk,‘I’m not Yao Ming’: China’s first UFC champ Zhang creates own hype,2020-06-17,"BEIJING: Zhang Weili retained her UFC title in March in one of the greatest women’s fights in MMA history, was then stranded in the United States for six weeks by coronavirus and finally flew back to China in a protective suit and visor.But after all that, it was the sight of airport and medical staff with “welcome home” scribbled on their own protective gear to greet arriving passengers that deeply affected her.“I was really touched and excited, I’ve never felt such warmth in all my life,” China’s first and only Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) champion told AFP in Shanghai.The 30-year-old Zhang, who as a child was challenged by her mother to jump out of ditches to toughen her up, has enjoyed a life-changing 10 months.Last August she thrilled a home crowd in Shenzhen with an upset knockout of UFC champion Jessica Andrade of Brazil in just 42 seconds to make Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) history.Zhang then successfully defended the strawweight title in a brutal dust-up in Las Vegas in early March against Poland’s Joanna Jedrzejczyk, despite her build-up being badly disrupted by the coronavirus outbreak.She boasts a 21-1 MMA record and UFC president Dana White has touted her to rank alongside Conor McGregor and Ronda Rousey as a global superstar of the sport.The excitement surrounding Zhang’s swift rise to prominence has reached such an extent in China that she is being mentioned in the same breath as basketball giant Yao Ming, who led the Houston Rockets to the NBA playoffs four times.But the articulate Zhang, who hails from the northern province of Hebei, gives that lofty comparison a swift verbal jab.“I am not Yao Ming or anyone else,” she said, adding: “I just want to be a better me.”‘I like that interaction’Coronavirus has eased in China since the disease emerged in the country late last year, allowing Zhang to conduct an open workout for the media at UFC’s newly built Performance Institute in Shanghai this week.But UFC fight nights, like most sports, are taking place behind closed doors to prevent the spread of infections among spectators.Asked about the pandemic’s impact on her daily life, Zhang replied: “My life is about training. So if it affects my training, it affects my life.”Zhang’s next opponent has not been confirmed, but the prospect of defending her title with nobody there to cheer, or jeer, is not one she relishes.“Now there are no spectators, I feel a lot of things are missing and I don’t feel that special excitement,” said Zhang.“That’s why I think that [the] spectators are really important. I don’t know how I would react if there is no audience.” “I really like spectators cheering for me or even booing me. I like that interaction.”UFC supremo White last week said that UFC will stage a series of bouts on a “Fight Island” in the United Arab Emirates next month to ease travel headaches for international fighters.Zhang welcomes the idea of competing on Abu Dhabi’s Yas Island, where UFC staged a card in September last year.Zhang says that unlike travelling to the United States, she can get a visa on arrival, does not have so far to fly and does not have to suffer jetlag.“I’ve been there before and watched a fight, and I also lived on that island when I was preparing for a fight,” she said.‘I must not become lazy’Zhang’s new-found stardom has seen many more demands placed on her for media and commercial obligations, while she also has an active presence on social media.But she says those have not placed any extra pressure on her or distracted her from training, and she knows that believing her own hype would be fatal for her career.“I told myself that I must not become lazy, I must remember who I am, I should be the same as before I was champion and keep the desire to win,” she said.“I have to keep that in mind, instead of thinking that I have already made it.“Because once I start thinking like that, it’ll fast be the start of the descent.”"
Web Desk,Three races to savour at Royal Ascot,2020-06-15,"LONDON: Royal Ascot goes ahead on Tuesday despite being behind closed doors due to the coronavirus pandemic.Here AFP Sport picks out three races which could light up the five-day meeting:TUESDAYKing’s Stand StakesPunters believe this is the year that top sprinter Battaash will add the one race missing from his trophy cabinet after filling the bridesmaid role in the past two editions of the five-furlong (1000 metres) dash.The six-year-old is the best backed horse of the week thus far and with his conqueror of the past two renewals, Blue Point retired it would appear the prize is all but his.“There’s pressure but it’s fantastic training a horse like him for so long,” said trainer Charlie Hills.“He’s six and has always put in at least one scintillating performance a season.”If people are doubtful about his chances — the favourite has not landed the odds in the past 10 runnings — then Glass Slippers could be the haven for them as the main rival.Glass Slippers has got the better of Battaash before when she won the Group One Prix de l’Abbaye last October in fine style.“She’s a high-class filly and we have always thought a lot of her,” said her trainer Kevin Ryan.“In a normal year she’d have had a run before but I’m not worried that she hasn’t.”THURSDAYAscot Gold CupDettori’s chances of an eighth win in the meeting’s most historic race and guiding Stradivarius to a third successive victory have been boosted considerably with Aidan O’Brien deciding not to send Kew Gardens over from Ireland.Stradivarius warmed up for Ascot with a respectable third in the Coronation Cup at Newmarket a week ago over a much shorter distance than the 2 1/2 miles (4000 metres) of the Gold Cup.“Stradivarius ticks the boxes,” said Dettori, whose first win in the Gold Cup was back in 1992 on Drum-Taps.“This has always been the target. He is as good as we can get him and he is good to go.”Should Stradivarius win do not expect the trademark flying dismount from 49-year-old Dettori.“I had a couple of winners at Newmarket last weekend and returned to an empty enclosure […] it was pretty anti-climactic,” said Dettori.“So I did not do them there and I don’t feel like doing it at Ascot.”His principal challenger could well be Nayef Road who warmed up for the race with an impressive win in the Sagaro Stakes.His trainer Mark Johnston has won the Gold Cup three times — his first-ever Royal Ascot winner was Double Trigger in the 1995 edition — and it remains very much the prize he covets the most.“The big excitement will be Nayef Road in the Gold Cup and he has a great chance,” Johnston told AFP.“It is an undisputed fact there are more commercially attractive races at Royal Ascot but there is no race I would prefer to win than the Gold Cup.”SATURDAYSt James’s Palace StakesThis mile contest for colts could produce the duel of the meeting between Pinatubo and Wichita.Pinatubo will be seeking to restore some lustre to his image — though the one of the wonder horse is gone — after finishing third in the English 2000 Guineas last weekend in what was his first defeat in his seven-race career.Wichita — trained by Aidan O’Brien — finished one place in front of him but with Kameko proving too good for both of them. Kameko mises the race as he is being aimed at the Derby in July.“Obviously I’m disappointed as it’s the first time he’s been beaten but at least he hasn’t fallen out the back of the telly,” said Pinatubo’s trainer Charlie Appleby.“He gives himself every opportunity to back up quickly because he conserves energy from one race to the next.”"
Web Desk,September IPL in Sri Lanka is viable option: Gavaskar,2020-06-14,"NEW DELHI: Batting great Sunil Gavaskar said the Indian Premier League (IPL) could be staged in Sri Lanka in September with Australia’s chances of hosting the Twenty20 World Cup in October looking bright. The Twenty20 international showpiece is scheduled to take place from October 18 to November 19 but had been under threat because of the coronavirus pandemic.However, Australia’s decision to allow crowds of up to 10,000 in sports stadiums from June has breathed life into the staging of the tournament, with the International Cricket Council set to make a decision next month.“If the ICC believes that the World T20 can happen, then having the IPL looks difficult because it could only be held if the World T20 is postponed,” the former India captain told local television channel Aaj Tak.“But after the announcement [of opening the stadiums for fans by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison], the IPL in October looks difficult.”Indian cricket chiefs are desperately trying to salvage the cash-rich IPL this year even if it means taking it overseas or playing in empty stands.IPL chairman Brijesh Patel said the league could be moved out of India if the virus threat does not ease in the next two months.The league has earmarked a possible September-October window for the event.With the monsoon expected to bring heavy rains to India in September, staging a shortened version of the competition in Sri Lanka that month could be a viable option, Gavaskar said.“In September, you can’t have the IPL in India due to monsoon,” said Gavaskar.“But maybe [it can be held] in Sri Lanka from early September with teams playing each other once instead of double-headers. Maybe you can think of that,” he added.The United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Sri Lankan cricket boards have already shown interest in hosting the tournament this year.The world’s wealthiest Twenty20 tournament has twice been held outside India in years that it clashed with national elections.South Africa hosted the second IPL in 2009, and the first half of the 2014 season took place in the UAE."
Web Desk,Misbah says no strings attached to England tour,2020-06-13,"LAHORE: Head coach Misbah-ul-Haq is adamant Pakistan’s upcoming tour of England amid the coronavirus pandemic is not dependent upon a return visit.Next month international cricket is set to resume for the first time since the outbreak as England host the West Indies in a three-Test series staged behind closed doors.Pakistan are also meant to play three Tests, as well as three Twenty20s, in a series scheduled to start on August 5, although the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) have still to confirm the dates.Major international teams stopped touring Pakistan after Sri Lanka’s team bus was attacked by armed militants in Lahore in 2009 and, although some have returned recently, it is 15 years since England last visited the country.Cricket West Indies (CWI) president Ricky Skerritt told ESPN Cricinfo on Friday a $3 million loan to CWI by the ECB in May, was not contingent upon his side touring England but rather a “helping hand” from one of the sport’s wealthiest major bodies to one of its poorest.The Pakistan Cricket Board, who announced Friday a touring squad at a time when more than 50,000 people have died from COVID-19 in Britain, are also a financial minnow compared to the ECB.But Pakistan chief selector and head coach Misbah, in a conference call on Saturday, rejected talk of a reciprocal arrangement.START SOMEWHERE“It is not in our minds that we are coming and keeping in view something that the ECB has to do for us in return,” he said.“It is important for us to restart international cricket somewhere, get the players back on the ground. That is the most important thing at the moment.”Nevertheless, looking to the longer term, the former Pakistan captain added: “Obviously, in a bigger picture, we are not expecting anything in return but overall, we want not just the ECB but all cricketing nations to help each other so this game can grow. It’s important for cricket fans in Pakistan and also for Pakistan cricket that countries start touring Pakistan.”Meanwhile Misbah said Pakistan’s experience of playing ‘home’ games in the United Arab Emirates without the “energy” provided by fans would stand them in good stead for matches in England where there will be no spectators on health grounds.“Nobody understands it better than us because we played much more cricket than any other team in the world with empty stadiums in the UAE,” he said.“Obviously in a bigger picture, if we want to resume international cricket, we have to start it from somewhere.”Misbah also wished Shahid Afridi well after his fellow former Pakistan skipper tweeted on Saturday he had tested positive for the illness.“My prayers are with him, all well wishes with him that he gets out of this soon,” said Misbah.“I think he was doing a lot of work in the area of Balochistan and the northern areas just to help the people. Throughout the COVID situation he was helping the poor, doing a very good job.”"
Web Desk,"Tokyo Olympics will be safe, governor says",2020-06-13,"TOKYO: Next year’s Olympics will be safe despite the coronavirus pandemic, Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike has said, pledging a “120-percent effort” to ensure the first-ever postponed Games can go ahead.Koike — who announced Friday she would stand for re-election next month — said the city was committed to holding the event as a “symbol of human triumph” over the virus, but admitted it would be downsized.“I will make a 120-percent effort,” Koike, 67, said in an interview with AFP but declined to say how confident she was that the sporting extravaganza would open as planned.Tokyo 2020 became the first Olympics ever postponed in peacetime earlier this year as the coronavirus marched across the globe, upending lives and forcing the cancellation of sporting and cultural events.They are now scheduled to begin on July 23, 2021 — though they will still be known as the 2020 Games — but medical experts have raised concerns that the delay will not be long enough to contain the virus and hold the event safely.Officials in Japan and from the International Olympic Committee have warned it will not be possible to postpone again.Koike said she was continuing to “make all-out efforts in the battle against the virus to put on a Games that is full of hope”.And she pledged an event “that is safe and secure for athletes and fans from abroad as well as for residents of Tokyo and Japan”.A simpler, cheaper GamesJapan has got through the first coronavirus wave better than many countries, with just over 900 deaths out of fewer than 18,000 confirmed infections.But it has faced persistent criticism for conducting relatively few tests that could understate the true number of cases.Officials point to the comparatively low death rate as evidence that a recently lifted state of emergency — imposed in response to rising cases in April — and a public awareness campaign on social distancing have worked.“Tokyo residents know that the summer Games next year in 2021 is not possible unless the impact of coronavirus calms down,” Koike said.“That was among the things that pushed them to make these efforts.”Japanese and Olympic officials have repeatedly said it is too early to tell how the pandemic will have evolved by the run-up to the rescheduled Games.For now, Koike said “simplification and cost reduction” are the main planks of discussions, along with potential safety measures.“What kind of (virus) tests and how? How much social distancing is necessary? These will depend on future discussions,” she said.Preparing for a second waveThe final price tag of postponing the Games remains unclear and the delay has also rattled sponsors.A survey this week showed two-thirds of Tokyo 2020’s corporate sponsors are on the fence about continuing their backing.But Koike insisted the event would still be an “excellent opportunity” for sponsors and said she would be asking for their “continued support”.The governor, who broke with the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to run for the job in 2016, will stand for a second four-year term next month.She has been mentioned in the past as a possible future prime minister, and in 2017 stunned the political establishment by forming a short-lived new party that was seen as a potential challenger to the LDP.But Koike, who has described Japan as having not a glass ceiling for women but rather an “iron plate”, was tight-lipped on whether she might one day seek to become the country’s first female prime minister.For now, she said she is busy “preparing for the second wave of infections with the knowledge gained and experience earned”."
Web Desk,Is this the end of the road for Roger Federer?,2020-06-11,"PARIS: Roger Federer is talking optimistically about returning to his “highest level” after knee surgery, but does tennis have to start adjusting to a future without the Swiss star?The 20-time Grand Slam winner announced on Wednesday that he would be sidelined until 2021 after his second operation in a matter of months.Federer remains upbeat, tweeting: “I plan to take the necessary time to be 100 percent ready to play at my highest level.”In some ways 2020 is a good season to miss after the coronavirus ravaged the tennis schedule.Writing Federer off in the past has proved dangerous.He returned from a six-month injury lay-off to claim the Australian Open in 2017, winning his eighth Wimbledon crown later that year.But he will be 40 in 2021 and is now heading into uncharted territory.Despite his groaning trophy cabinet, there are two factors that will motivate Federer to keep going — the risk of losing his grip on the men’s Grand Slam title record and a missing Olympics singles gold medal.Rafael Nadal has 19 majors, just one shy of Federer’s mark and Djokovic has 17.Spain’s Nadal will be fancied to draw level with Federer at the French Open, rescheduled for September, while few would bet against Djokovic winning in New York weeks earlier.In April, Federer said he was “devastated” when Wimbledon was cancelled for the first time since World War II.Last year he fell agonisingly short at the All England Club, failing to convert two championship points on his own serve against Djokovic.The Wimbledon grass probably remains his best chance of adding to his Grand Slam collection — he has not won the US Open since 2008 and his only title at Roland Garros came in 2009.Even though Federer has slipped from the very pinnacle of the game, he is still a major threat to Nadal and Djokovic.GOLDEN AMBITIONSLast year, the world number four had a 53-10 win-loss record and he reached the semi-finals at the Australian Open in January in his only tournament this year.Federer, who is still six ATP titles short of Jimmy Connors’ all-time record of 109, has one glaring omission from his CV — the Olympic title.The Swiss won doubles gold in Beijing in 2008 with compatriot Stan Wawrinka but lost in the singles final to Andy Murray in London four years later.The postponed Tokyo Games will almost certainly be Federer’s last opportunity to complete a career “golden” Grand Slam — he will turn 40 on the day of the closing ceremony next year.Tennis will feel the loss of the elegant Federer keenly when he walks off the court for the last time.Djokovic and Nadal have been the dominant forces in recent years but the Swiss remains the biggest draw and last month topped Forbes’ list of the world’s highest-earning athletes.His last appearance on court was in front of nearly 52,000 fans — touted by organisers as a world record for tennis — at a charity match against Nadal in Cape Town in February.Federer is nearly always the crowd favourite wherever he plays and has proved a perfect ambassador for the sport since he won his first Grand Slam title in 2003.He certainly expects to be back and competitive next year.“I will be missing my fans and the tour dearly but I will look forward to seeing everyone back on tour at the start of the 2021 season,” he tweeted.The avalanche of support from his adoring fans showed they would miss him too, but they will have to get used to a time when he is gone for good."
Web Desk,Fans welcome as Djokovic event helps tennis emerge from coronavirus,2020-06-11,"LONDON: After being suspended for three months due to the coronavirus pandemic, top-level international tennis returns this weekend in Belgrade with a charity tournament hosted by world number one Novak Djokovic and where fans will be welcome. The Adria Tour will be held until July 5 in Serbia, Croatia, Montenegro and Bosnia.On the tournament’s first stop, on Saturday and Sunday, the Serbian star will be joined by world number three Dominic Thiem.Germany’s Alexander Zverev and Bulgarian Grigor Dimitrov, ranked seventh and 19th in the world respectively, are also set to take part.The ATP and WTA Tours have been suspended since March due to the pandemic and will not resume at least until the end of July.The French Open was postponed until September and Wimbledon was cancelled for the first time since World War II.The four tennis stars will play under regulations allowing up to 1,000 people to attend open-air sports events, which were introduced in Serbia on Monday.The matches will be played at Novak Tennis Centre, financed by Djokovic’s family, with a view of the Danube river.Tickets sold out in seven minutes after they were put on sale online last Wednesday.The event will be broadcast live in more than 100 countries, its director Djordje Djokovic, Novak’s younger brother, said.“Every spectator will get a mask at the entrance, disinfectants will be placed throughout the complex,” Djordje Djokovic said.Also, the entire centre will be disinfected after every match.“We are professionals in this sport and we want to play,” said the 33-year-old Djokovic.However, two tennis giants — Roger Federer, out for the rest of the year following knee surgery, and Rafael Nadal, who recently resumed training — will be absent.“Taking the situation into account, I didn’t have the nerve to call and invite them,” said Djokovic.Both Djokovic and Thiem were training during the lockdown.“I had a tennis court so I could train every day,” said Djokovic referring to his period of confinement in Spain, where he was staying with his family at a home in Marbella.Thiem said he was the best-prepared player in Belgrade since he has played matches in Austria behind closed doors.After the Serbian capital, the tournament will move to Zadar, on Croatia’s Adriatic coast, where Djokovic and his peers will be joined by two Croatian tennis stars — former US Open champion Marin Cilic and Borna Coric.After Montenegro, the event will end on July 5 with an exhibition match between Bosnian number one Damir Dzumhur and Djokovic.“In Sarajevo and Bosnia, people really love Djokovic […] it will be an exceptional event for them, an ideal opportunity to see Novak up close,” world number 107 Dzumhur said.All the matches will be played on clay.The money raised will be donated to various regional charities.Balkan countries coped with the coronavirus pandemic with relative success.The region of some 22 million people registered fewer than 24,000 infections and around 700 deaths."
Web Desk,Federer out of tennis until 2021 after knee surgery,2020-06-10,"GENEVA: Twenty-time Grand Slam singles champion Roger Federer said Wednesday he will be sidelined until 2021 after undergoing his second knee operation in a matter of months.The 38-year-old Swiss said he underwent follow-up arthroscopic surgery “a few weeks ago” after undergoing a similar keyhole procedure in February.Federer, whose last Grand Slam win was the 2018 Australian Open, said he “experienced a setback during (his) initial rehabilitation”.“I plan to take the necessary time to be 100 per cent ready to play at my highest level,” he said in a statement on Twitter.“I will be missing my fans and the tour dearly but I will look forward to seeing everyone back on tour at the start of the 2021 season.”The announcement is likely to renew speculation about retirement for Federer, who holds the record for men’s Grand Slam singles titles and last month topped Forbes’ list of the world’s highest earning athletes.Federer, who won his first major trophy in 2003, lies just ahead of his longtime rivals Rafael Nadal (19) and Novak Djokovic (17) on the all-time list.The biggest title he has yet to win is an Olympic singles gold medal.The Tokyo Games — seen as Federer’s final opportunity to complete a career “golden” Grand Slam — have been postponed until next year because of the pandemic, and Federer will turn 40 on the day of the closing ceremony.After the initial operation, Federer had originally planned to return for the now cancelled grass-court season this month. His last tournament match was on January 30 in the Australian Open semi-finals, where he lost to eventual champion Djokovic.His last appearance on court was in front of 51,954 fans — touted by organisers as a world record for tennis — at a charity match against Nadal in Cape Town in early February.Tennis ground to a halt in March because of the coronavirus, and the globetrotting sport faces an uncertain route to recovery given crippling travel restrictions.In April, Federer said he was “devastated” when Wimbledon, where he has won a record eight titles, was cancelled for the first time since World War II.Federer, known for his elegant style of play, has got off lightly with injuries during a career in which he has won 103 singles titles, including all four majors.He had arthroscopic surgery on his left knee — the first operation of his career — in early 2016 after suffering a freak injury while running a bath for his daughters.But after failing to win a title that year Federer returned strongly in 2017, winning seven tournaments including the Australian Open and Wimbledon — his most prolific season in a decade.He is still six ATP titles short of Jimmy Connors’ all-time record of 109.Tour-level tennis has been suspended until the end of July at the earliest, with the US Open scheduled to start on August 24 and the rescheduled French Open on September 20.Federer has not won the title at either Flushing Meadows or Roland Garros since his only French Open triumph in 2009."
Web Desk,Everton to host Liverpool in potential title decider at Goodison,2020-06-10,"LONDON: Liverpool’s clash with Everton on June 21 will be played at Goodison Park after Liverpool City Council gave the go-ahead for both sides to complete their remaining Premier League fixtures at home.Victory at the home of their Merseyside rivals would see Liverpool clinch a first league title in 30 years if Manchester City lose at home to Arsenal on June 17.That had led to concerns that fans could congregate around both clubs’ grounds in the city in breach of coronavirus restrictions.Goodison is less than a mile from Liverpool’s Anfield stadium.However, a meeting between the council, police, clubs and fans’ groups on Wednesday agreed to allow the match to proceed in Liverpool rather than at a neutral venue.“We are satisfied that the considerable evidence and guidance provided by the government, Everton and Liverpool football clubs, public health colleagues and Merseyside Police will ensure that the outstanding fixtures for the 2019/20 Premier League season can be safely and securely played at both Goodison Park and Anfield,” said Wendy Simon, deputy mayor of Liverpool, who chairs the Ground Safety Advisory Group.Liverpool said further discussions this week will “provide clear and regular updates for supporters throughout this process”.Should City not drop points against Arsenal or Burnley in their first two games back, Liverpool could win the title on home soil at Anfield against Crystal Palace on June 24."
Web Desk,"Test teams can substitute players with virus symptoms, ICC announces",2020-06-10,"DUBAI: The International Cricket Council (ICC) on Tuesday announced that Test teams will be allowed to field substitutes for players displaying coronavirus symptoms.The new regulation is one of several interim changes designed to prevent the spread of Covid-19 when cricket resumes, including a ban on saliva being used to shine the ball.As happens with concussion substitutes, any replacement would be able to play a full part in the match but it would be down to the match referee to approve the nearest like-for-like switch.Previously, substitutes were restricted to fielding.The regulation for COVID-19 replacements would not be applicable in limited-overs internationals.Other changes ratified by the ICC’s chief executives committee include a ban on applying saliva to the ball, a method employed by fast bowlers on one side of the ball to make it swing.A team can be issued with up to two warnings per innings but repeated use of saliva on the ball would result in a five-run penalty to the batting side.But the ICC explained in a statement that “the umpires will manage the situation with some leniency during an initial period of adjustment for the players”.International travel restrictions have seen the ICC relax its rule mandating that neutral umpires stand in Tests.The ICC said given there may be “less experienced” officials on duty it would increase the number of unsuccessful appeals per innings for each team to three for Tests and two for white-ball formats.Concerns had been expressed that the pandemic might lead to Chris Broad — the only English official on the elite panel of referees — adjudicating on incidents involving an England team featuring his son, Stuart Broad.With commercial income set to take a hit, given that cricket will resume without fans at the grounds, the ICC has relaxed rules on apparel logos for the next 12 months.Sponsors’ logos will now be permitted in the prime position of the chest of a Test match shirt or sweater in addition to the three others presently allowed under ICC regulations.Currently, logos on chests are only allowed in one-day matches and Twenty20 internationals.The new regulations are set to apply for the first time when England face the West Indies in the opening match of a three-Test series at the bio-secure venue of Southampton, starting on July 8."
Web Desk,Crowded house: New Zealand’s Super Rugby opens gates to fans,2020-06-08,"WELLINGTON: Fans will be allowed to fill stadiums when top-flight rugby resumes in New Zealand this weekend, organisers said Monday, hailing the move as a world first after professional sport’s coronavirus shutdown.New Zealand Rugby made the announcement after Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern eased a range of virus-related restrictions, meaning social distancing requirements no longer apply.It means packed stands are expected when New Zealand’s Super Rugby teams open a domestic series, a temporary replacement for the suspended southern hemisphere competition, on Saturday.“We’re incredibly proud, and grateful, to be the first professional sports competition in the world to be in a position to have our teams play in front of their fans again,” NZR chief Mark Robinson said.“It’s going to be a very special and unique competition and it’s fitting that New Zealanders now have a chance to be part of it.”While many other sports competitions around the globe have announced plans to restart, the vast majority will be played either with no crowds or numbers severely restricted.Some competitions have placed cardboard cutouts in seats to make the grounds appear less empty, and broadcasters have piped in canned crowd noises in a bid to create a big-match atmosphere.Super Rugby Aotearoa, involving New Zealand’s five provincial teams, was originally slated to go ahead behind closed doors, starting with Otago Highlanders against Waikato Chiefs on Saturday.Instead, when it kicks off under the roof at Dunedin’s Forsyth Barr Stadium, the raucous support from home fans in “The Zoo” section is sure to generate an electric atmosphere.WORLD WILL BE WATCHINGHighlanders chief executive Roger Clark said the South Island club was “buzzing” at the prospect of hosting the Chiefs in Saturday’s opener.“The world will be watching and we will be ready to put on a show,” he said.“Our players, coaches and staff have been working overtime to get Super Rugby Aotearoa ready and to now be able to share the competition with our members and our fans will be a very special occasion.”Tickets for the match went on sale immediately after Ardern’s announcement.The response on the Highlanders’ Facebook page was enthusiastic, with one fan pledging to fly south from Wellington for the match.Spectators are being encouraged to use mobile phone apps to record their locations in case an unexpected virus infection requires contact tracing, although it is not compulsory.New Zealand, with a population of five million, had 1,154 confirmed COVID-19 cases and 22 deaths.While domestic restrictions have been eased, strict border controls remain in place.Australia, which has also enjoyed success containing the coronavirus, will start a competition between its four Super Rugby franchise teams and the Western Force on July 3.South Africa remains in lockdown, while Japan’s Sunwolves have been axed and the Jaguares of Argentina face an uncertain future.There are also questions about the competition’s long-term prospects after the pandemic highlighted existing problems with a format criticised as unwieldy, expensive to run and exhausting for elite players.New Zealand is reviewing its participation, with a report looking at ways to keep the competition relevant and sustainable due by the end of this month."
Web Desk,Will saliva ban threaten cricket’s kings of swing bowling?,2020-06-08,"LONDON: The International Cricket Council (ICC) board meeting on Wednesday could see the global governing body uphold a recommendation to prohibit the use of saliva in order to stop the transmission of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19).Bowlers traditionally get the ball to move or swing in the air, thereby making it harder for batsmen to hit, by applying shine to one side via sweat — which can still be used — or saliva.However, as a temporary measure to combat Covid-19, the ICC’s cricket committee has suggested banning the use of saliva.One of the most extraordinary individual performances in cricket history saw Australia swing bowler Bob Massie take 16 for 137 on his Test debut against England at Lord’s in 1972.Yet Massie won just five more caps and took only 15 more wickets, with the bowler himself saying he had struggled on a subsequent tour of the West Indies where he adjusted his action and was never the same cricketer again.Massie’s remarkable maiden Test and the lavish swing he generated at Lord’s led to suggestions he’d applied lip salve to the ball in order to maintain the shine — an accusation he has always denied.“Some days things go just right,” Massie said by way of explaining his remarkable introduction to Test cricket.It used to be thought that as a cricket ball got older it would swing less.But a technique pioneered by Pakistan paceman Sarfraz Nawaz, partly in response to the slow and batsmen-friendly pitches of his homeland, led to the development of reverse swing.“Just using sweat won’t be of much help because that will only make the ball wet and that shine will be missing,” said Sarfraz.Sarfraz confused a succession of batsmen by bowling in-swingers with an old ball.He helped compatriot Imran Khan add reverse swing to his armory and in the 1990s there were probably no better exponents than the Pakistan fast-bowling duo of Wasim Akram and Waqar Younis.In 1992, the pair took 43 wickets between them as Pakistan won a five-match Test series in England 2-1.Over time, teams all around the world came to realise that in order to generate reverse swing it was vital the ball was “looked after” properly, with one side polished and the other kept bone dry.Swing bowlers such as Andrew Flintoff, Matthew Hoggard and Simon Jones were pivotal to England regaining the Ashes from Australia in 2005.But it was England opening batsman Marcus Trescothick who later revealed he had put Murray Mints sweets to good use in the field because sucking them stimulated most saliva, which could then be applied to the ball.It seems unlikely cricket chiefs will row back from the saliva ban but former South Africa paceman Shaun Pollock, even though he is a member of the ICC cricket committee, gave current swing bowlers a glimmer of hope by suggesting health checks in place for next month’s behind closed doors three-Test series between England and the West Indies might make it redundant.“I think the environment that’ll end up being created is almost going to be like a bubble,” Pollock told the Following On Cricket Podcast. “People will get tested, they’ll go into a two-week camp where they’re just going to sit and monitor how the conditions of their bodies change.“And if there are no symptoms, it doesn’t really matter about shining the ball then, because you’re in the bubble and no one you come into contact with will have coronavirus. So you can just get on with normal proceedings.”"
Web Desk,"Racism ‘only disease right now,’ says Sterling",2020-06-08,"LONDON: Manchester City and England footballer Raheem Sterling on Sunday insisted that racism is “the only disease right now”. The 25-year-old, who has often and powerfully spoken out on discrimination, admitted his remarks may appear ill-chosen as the globe fights the coronavirus pandemic.“I know this might sound a little bit cheesy but the only disease right now is the racism that we are fighting,” said Sterling in a BBC TV interview to be broadcast on Monday.Sterling is the latest sports star to voice support for protests against racism in the United States and across the world following the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis last month.“This is the most important thing at this moment in time because this is something that is happening for years and years. Just like the pandemic, we want to find a solution to stop it,” he added.“At the same time, this is what all these protesters are doing. They are trying to find a solution and a way to stop the injustice they are seeing, and they are fighting for their cause.“As long as they are doing it peacefully and safely and not hurting anybody and not breaking into any stores, they continue to protest in this peaceful way.”Sterling has previously been prominent in calling out racism in both the domestic and international game.Last year he advised fellow players against walking off the pitch in the event of racial abuse.But Sterling believes it is now time for the talking to develop into real change – in society and in the notoriously tribal world of professional football.“There’s only so much communities and other backgrounds can take – especially black people.“It’s been going on for hundreds of years and people are tired and people are ready for change.“This is something that needs more than just talking. We need to actually implement change and highlight the places that do need changes.“But this is something that I myself will continue to do, and spark these debates and get people in my industry looking at themselves and thinking what they can do to give people an equal chance in this country.”"
Web Desk,"Racism ‘only disease right now,’ says Sterling",2020-06-08,"LONDON: Manchester City and England footballer Raheem Sterling on Sunday insisted that racism is “the only disease right now”. The 25-year-old, who has often and powerfully spoken out on discrimination, admitted his remarks may appear ill-chosen as the globe fights the coronavirus pandemic.“I know this might sound a little bit cheesy but the only disease right now is the racism that we are fighting,” said Sterling in a BBC TV interview to be broadcast on Monday.Sterling is the latest sports star to voice support for protests against racism in the United States and across the world following the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis last month.“This is the most important thing at this moment in time because this is something that is happening for years and years. Just like the pandemic, we want to find a solution to stop it,” he added.“At the same time, this is what all these protesters are doing. They are trying to find a solution and a way to stop the injustice they are seeing, and they are fighting for their cause.“As long as they are doing it peacefully and safely and not hurting anybody and not breaking into any stores, they continue to protest in this peaceful way.”Sterling has previously been prominent in calling out racism in both the domestic and international game.Last year he advised fellow players against walking off the pitch in the event of racial abuse.But Sterling believes it is now time for the talking to develop into real change – in society and in the notoriously tribal world of professional football.“There’s only so much communities and other backgrounds can take – especially black people.“It’s been going on for hundreds of years and people are tired and people are ready for change.“This is something that needs more than just talking. We need to actually implement change and highlight the places that do need changes.“But this is something that I myself will continue to do, and spark these debates and get people in my industry looking at themselves and thinking what they can do to give people an equal chance in this country.”"
Web Desk,UFC superstar Conor McGregor announces retirement,2020-06-07,"NEW YORK: Mixed martial arts superstar Conor McGregor announced his retirement from the sport on Sunday.The two-division Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) World Champion said his fighting days were over in a Twitter message posted on his verified account, alongside a picture of the Irishman with his mother, Margaret.“Hey guys I’ve decided to retire from fighting. Thank you all for the amazing memories! What a ride it’s been!” he wrote.“Here is a picture of myself and my mother in Las Vegas post one of my World title wins! Pick the home of your dreams Mags I love you! Whatever you desire it’s yours.”The controversial fighter, nicknamed “The Notorious”, previously announced his retirement from the sport in March last year after being battered into submission by arch-rival Khabib Nurmagomedov in October 2018.In April 2016 he also said he was retiring with a now-famous tweet: “I have decided to retire young. Thanks for the cheese. Catch ya’s later.”His last appearance in the octagon was in January after a 15 month-absence when he knocked out American Donald “Cowboy” Cerrone in a ruthless 40-second destruction in Las Vegas.The 31-year-old, an icon of the UFC, is no stranger to controversy and hit the headlines last year for an attack on an older man in a Dublin bar that was captured in a viral video.McGregor, one of the most popular fighters in MMA history, has a record of 22-4 and was the first UFC fighter to hold two championship belts at the same time.He achieved that feat in 2016 when he stopped Eddie Alvarez in a lightweight title fight, adding it to his featherweight title.That triumph was followed by a loss to boxing great Floyd Mayweather in a cross-combat superfight in 2017, his loss to Nurmagomedov, announcements of retirements and returns to fighting.UFC president Dana White paid tribute to McGregor after the conclusion of UFC 250 in Las Vegas early Sunday morning.“If Conor McGregor feels he wants to retire, you know my feelings about retirement, you should absolutely do it,” White said at the post-event press conference.“I love Conor. There’s a handful of people that have made this really fun for me, and he’s one of them.”"
Web Desk,Darren Sammy alleges racist abuse while playing IPL,2020-06-07,"Former West Indies captain Darren Sammy has alleged that he was at the receiving end of a racial slur, “kalu” (a black person), while playing for Sunrisers Hyderabad in the Indian Premier League (IPL), The Indian Express reported.“I just learnt what that ‘kalu’ meant when I played for Sunrisers in the IPL. They call me and Perera by that name. I thought it meant strong Stallion. My previous post tells me something different and I’m angry,” Sammy posted on Instagram on Saturday.His earlier post read: “Oh so that’s what that meant when they called me and @tp_perera kalu in India when we played for Sunrisers. I just thought they were calling me [a] strong black man […] I’m more piss[ed] (sic) now.”Sammy has already taken his protest to the International Cricket Council (ICC), urging the game’s global body to open its eyes and speak up against racism. Sammy is probably the first cricketer to put the ICC in the line of fire, as the #BlackLivesMatter campaign gathers steam by the day.“@ICC and all the other boards are you guys not seeing what’s happening to ppl like me? Are you not gonna speak against the social injustice against my kind. This is not only about America. This happens everyday #BlackLivesMatter now is not the time to be silent. I wanna hear u,” Sammy, who played 38 Tests, 126 ODIs and 68 T20 Internationals, had tweeted.. @ICC and all the other boards are you guys not seeing what’s happening to ppl like me? Are you not gonna speak against the social injustice against my kind. This is not only about America. This happens everyday #BlackLivesMatter now is not the time to be silent. I wanna hear u — Daren Sammy (@darensammy88) June 2, 2020Sammy’s follow-up tweet said: “For too long black people have suffered. I’m all the way in St Lucia and I’m frustrated If you see me as a teammate then you see #GeorgeFloyd Can you be part of the change by showing your support. #BlackLivesMatter”.For too long black people have suffered. I’m all the way in St Lucia and I’m frustrated If you see me as a teammate then you see #GeorgeFloyd Can you be part of the change by showing your support. #BlackLivesMatter — Daren Sammy (@darensammy88) June 2, 2020George Floyd, a 46-year-old African-American, died on May 25 in Minneapolis after Derek Chauvin, a white policeman, knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes. The #BlackLivesMatter protest exploded in America after that incident. A lot of sportspersons, including cricketers from all over the world, have caught the sound of the explosion and lent their support to the protest.Chris Gayle, too, has raised his voice against racism in cricket. “I have travelled the globe and experience racial remarks towards me because I am black, believe me, the list goes on,” Gayle wrote in his Instagram story.On Saturday, Sachin Tendulkar quoted Nelson Mandela and posted on Twitter: “Nelson Mandela once said, ‘Sport has the power to change the world. It has the power to unite the world in a way that little else does.’ Wise words.”Nelson Mandela once said,“Sport has the power to change the world. It has the power to unite the world in a way that little else does.”Wise words. @icc @LaureusSport pic.twitter.com/qHuphZ3gc3 — Sachin Tendulkar (@sachin_rt) June 6, 2020The ICC, on its part, maintained that they have zero tolerance towards racism or homophobia, and the offenders could even be punished with a life ban."
Web Desk,Gayle told me India lost to England in 2019 WC to block Pakistan’s entry into semis: Mushtaq,2020-06-04,"Many raised eyebrows when the English team were able to defeat the unbeaten-till-now Indian team in a crucial fixture in the 2019 Cricket World Cup which sealed the fate of green team as Pakistan was dependent on its arch-rival to beat the British for it to proceed to the semifinals on the basis of net run rate.In the game, India needed 71 runs from the final five overs to maintain their unbeaten run in the tournament with hard-hitter Dhoni and all-rounder Kedar Jadhav in the middle.The duo, however, looked content knocking the ball around rather than going for big hits and managed only 39 in the last five overs. Dhoni remained not out on 42 off 31 balls, having hit the only six in the Indian innings, compared to England’s 13.Cricket observers both home and abroad speculated that blue shirts deliberately lost to England to block the entry of Pakistan in the semi-finals.Spin legend Mushtaq Ahmed has made another claim regarding that match. He said that the West Indies team players told him that India didn’t wish to see Pakistan in the semi-finalsMushtaq told ARY Sports: “I was working with the West Indies squad at last year’s World Cup. After India’s loss to England, Jason Holder, Chris Gayle, and Andre Russell said to me. ‘Mushy, India didn’t want to see Pakistan qualify for the semi-finals’.”However this is not the first time, someone from Pakistan accuses India of losing India vs England match deliberately. A few days back, former Pakistan bowler, Sikander Bakht alleged that India deliberately lost to England to eliminate Pakistan.Quoting the content from Ben Stokes’s soon-to-be-published book, “On Fire: My Story of England’s Summer to Remember”, Bakht made such claims against the Indian cricket team. He tweeted: “Ben Stokes writes in his book that India lost to England deliberately to remove Pakistan from world Cup 19 and we predicted it.”"
Web Desk,"eSports ‘icon’ Uzi retires with stress, obesity, diabetes, injury",2020-06-03,"BEIJING: A top eSports player with a vast following in his native China announced his retirement on Wednesday with a litany of health problems related to professional gaming.The premature end to the career of Jian Zihao, better known by his gaming name “Uzi”, shines a harsh spotlight on the lifestyles and training of eSports players.Uzi is a star League of Legends player for the Chinese team Royal Never Give Up (RNG) and his decision to quit was a top trending topic on China’s Twitter-like Weibo.Chinese media said that he was born in 1997 and experts called him one of the best players in the history of League of Legends, a popular multi-player battle game.“I regret to tell everyone that I am retiring,” Uzi wrote to his nearly five million followers on Weibo.“Because of chronic stress, obesity, irregular diet, staying up late and other reasons, I was found to have Type-2 diabetes during a physical examination last year.”Uzi also said that he was suffering a hand injury, a common complaint in eSports.RNG said that Uzi, who made his debut in professional eSports in 2012, suffered “injuries accumulated over eight years of high-intensity training”.They described him as “not only the heart and soul of RNG, but also an icon in the eSports world as a whole”.“In addition to doing everything we can to assist him in his future endeavours, we will also be by his side to help him on his journey to injury recovery,” RNG added.“We are here to help him recover 100 per cent.”There are potentially huge financial rewards in eSports, a fast-growing industry.But players can pay a high physical and mental toll because of sedentary lifestyles, long hours in front of screens, poor diets and repetitive hand and arm movements.A record $33.5 million was up for grabs at The International in Shanghai last year, where teams competed in the multi-player battle game Dota 2 for thousands of fans in an arena.But players told AFP that deteriorating eyesight, digestive problems and wrist and hand damage were all threats to their careers over the long term."
Web Desk,Three West Indies cricketers turn down England tour,2020-06-03,"TRINIDAD: Veteran batsman Darren Bravo was among three West Indies cricketers to turn down a place in the squad for next month’s three-Test tour of England, Cricket West Indies (CWI) announced Wednesday.Also missing out are fellow batsman Shimron Hetmyer and fast-bowling all-rounder Keemo Paul.“Darren Bravo, Shimron Hetmyer and Keemo Paul all declined the invitation to travel to England for the tour and CWI fully respects their decision to choose to do so,” CWI said in a statement.“As previously stated, CWI will not hold this decision against these players when considering future selection.”Jason Holder will skipper a 14-man squad that features two newcomers in fast bowler Chemar Holder (no relation) and middle-order batsman Nkrumah Bonner.The squad also includes Shai Hope, who during the West Indies’ 2017 Test match win at Headingley became the first batsman to score hundreds in both innings of a first-class match at Yorkshire’s headquarters.This year’s three back-to-back Tests, rescheduled because of the coronavirus outbreak, which the UK government says has claimed at least 39,000 lives in Britain, will be played behind closed doors.But a series that will span just 21 days remains subject to final approval from the UK government.The touring party, who will all be tested for COVID-19 this week, are scheduled to fly to England on private charters on June 8.The West Indies squad will live, train and play in a “bio-secure” environment during the seven weeks of the tour, as part of the comprehensive medical plan to ensure player and staff safety, CWI said.UNFAMILIAR ENVIRONMENTAs the health protocols will restrict movement in and out of the venues, the selectors have also named 11 reserve players who will travel to train and help prepare the Test squad, while ensuring injury replacements are readily available.“The new cricketing environment will take some getting used to,” said CWI chief selector Roger Harper.“However, being in England and working together for four weeks before the first Test will give the squad the opportunity to get acclimatised and hopefully, mentally and technically adjusted to the demands of the new environment.”Harper, himself a former Test off-spinner, added: “I think we have a squad that will be very competitive.“More than half of the squad were involved in the victorious Test series against England in the Caribbean last year so they will bring that experience, that knowledge and belief with them and marry it to the enthusiasm and vitality of the newcomers.”Going ahead with major matches is seen as vital in reducing the virus’s financial impact upon cricket, with the England and Wales Cricket Board estimating it could lose £252 million ($316 million) if there are no fixtures at all this summer."
Web Desk,FIFA calls for ‘common sense’ as German FA investigates Floyd protests,2020-06-02,"BERLIN: FIFA has called on leagues to use “common sense” when deciding whether to discipline footballers for displaying political messages after several players in the German Bundesliga called for justice for George Floyd during matches.“FIFA fully understands the depth of sentiment and concerns expressed by many footballers in light of the tragic circumstances of the George Floyd case,” world football’s governing body said in a statement on Tuesday.After scoring in his team’s win at Paderborn on Sunday, Borussia Dortmund’s English winger Jadon Sancho lifted his shirt to reveal the message “Justice for George Floyd”.His team-mate Achraf Hakimi and Schalke’s American midfielder Weston McKennie expressed similar calls for justice, while Borussia Moenchengladbach’s French forward Marcus Thuram took a knee after scoring for his team in memory of Floyd.Floyd died last week after a white policeman in Minneapolis kneeled on the handcuffed man’s neck for several minutes. The incident has sparked days of violent protests across the United States.The International Football Association Board (IFAB), the sport’s lawmakers, bans players from showing “any political, religious or personal slogans, statements or images”.However, pointing to its own anti-racism campaigns, FIFA intimated that no action should necessarily be taken against Sancho, Hakimi or McKennie.“The application of the laws of the game approved by the IFAB is left for the competitions organisers which should use common sense and have in consideration the context surrounding the events,” FIFA said.The German Football Association (DFB) is investigating the players in line with IFAB’s laws, although president Fritz Keller said he understood their actions.“If people are discriminated against because of the colour of their skin, it is unbearable,” said Keller.“If they die as a result of the colour of their skin, then I am deeply disturbed. The victims of racism need all of our solidarity.”Sancho was booked after revealing the message to mark scoring against Paderborn, although the DFB has said the yellow card was actually because he lifted his shirt over his head.“This is defined under rule number 12 as behaviour that is clearly against the rules and should be seen as independent of any political message,” said Lutz Michael Froehlich, head of the elite referees unit of the DFB.“For referees it is not possible to make a judgement during a match about political, religious or personal slogans, messages or pictures,” Froehlich added."
Web Desk,"Sky Brown, 11, targets Olympic gold despite horror",2020-06-02,"LONDON: Eleven-year-old skateboarder Sky Brown is still targeting Olympic gold for Britain in Tokyo despite a horrific fall during training in the United States.Brown was rushed to hospital by helicopter after falling in training in California on Thursday.She was reportedly unresponsive on arrival at hospital, with her father Stewart saying there were fears for her life after she suffered a fractured skull, but she is now recovering and has posted a video on social media.“I don’t usually post my falls or talk about them because I want people to see the fun in what I do, but this was my worst fall and I just want everyone to know that I’m OK,” Brown said.“It’s OK to fall sometimes. I’m just going to get back up and push even harder. I know there’s a lot going on in the world right now and I want everyone to know that whatever we do we’ve got to do it with love and happiness.”In a message alongside the video, Brown added: “This was my worst fall yet. My helmet and arm saved my life. This will not stop me. I am going for gold in Tokyo 2021. Stay strong. Stay positive.”Skateboarding is making its Olympic debut in Tokyo.Brown is hoping to become Britain’s youngest summer Olympian in Japan, with the Games postponed until next summer because of the coronavirus pandemic."
Web Desk,Formula One unveils eight-race schedule in Europe from July 5,2020-06-02,"LONDON: The curtailed Formula One season will start with two races behind closed doors in Austria on July 5 and July 12 followed by six other grands prix in Europe, the organisers said on Tuesday.Formula One said it hoped to have between 15 and 18 races in total, with the season being completed in December.The F1 season was thrown into chaos with the cancellation of the traditional curtain-raising Australian Grand Prix in March only hours before practice was due to begin as the coronavirus pandemic spread across the world.Last week, the Austrian government sanctioned the season-opening double-header at the Spielberg circuit after F1 organisers “presented a complete and professional plan” to combat the COVID-19 outbreak.The Hungarian Grand Prix will be brought forward to July 19 before a two-week break, followed by consecutive races in Britain and events in Spain, Italy and Belgium. All will likely be run without spectators while participants must adhere to strict safety protocols.Regular health tests will be conducted with the number of team members and race staff at the venue also reduced.“While we currently expect the season to commence without fans at our races we hope that over the coming months the situation will allow us to welcome them back once it is safe to do,” said F1 chief executive Chase Carey.“But we know the return of Formula 1 will be a welcome boost to sports fans around the world.”F1 managing director Ross Brawn last month said the Red Bull Ring circuit’s remote location made it a “logical” choice to stage the season’s first two races.BLUEPRINT TO FOLLOWWith a local airport, the races can be held in an isolated environment, essential in the fight against the pandemic that has killed less than 700 people in Austria, and more than over 375,000 worldwide.“Red Bull have pulled out all the stops to get the Austrian Grand Prix up and running, in order to support a safe start to the Formula One season,” said team principal Christian Horner.“It has been a huge effort by all involved and the two events at the Red Bull Ring will be a blueprint for all other races to follow.He added: “With the first eight races of the calendar now confirmed we have some positive momentum. As a race team and racers, we are excited to get going again and put on a show for our fans.”Silverstone will host two races in Britain on August 2 and 9, with the Spanish Grand Prix set for Barcelona on August 16.The Belgian and Italian Grands Prix will take place on their original dates of August 30 and September 6, completing the European part of the season. Each event will also include the Formula 2 and Formula 3 categories.The blueprint for the rehashed season features further races in Asia and the Americas in September, October and November before finishing in the Gulf in Bahrain and Abu Dhabi in December.The 2020 season was to have featured a record 22 races, now it is set to be the shortest campaign since 2009 with races in Australia, Monaco, France and the Netherlands cancelled.MotoGP is also expected to release an updated schedule shortly.The first 11 races of the season have been either postponed or cancelled due to the global health crisis.MotoGP organisers Dorna are awaiting Spanish government approval to start the truncated season with back-to-back races at the Jerez circuit in Spain on July 19 and 26."
Web Desk,Hamilton slams ‘white-dominated’ F1 for silence over Floyd death,2020-06-01,"LONDON: World champion Lewis Hamilton criticised the “biggest of stars” in “white-dominated” Formula One for failing to speak out against racism as protests erupted around the United States.The Mercedes driver warned “I know who you are and I see you” as he accused his fellow drivers of “staying silent” following the death of George Floyd, an unarmed black man, during his arrest in Minneapolis.The videotaped incident has triggered unrest in several cities and led to an outpouring of condemnation from top athletes including Michael Jordan and Serena Williams.“I see those of you who are staying silent, some of you the biggest of stars yet you stay silent in the midst of injustice,” Hamilton wrote on Instagram.“Not a sign from anybody in my industry which of course is a white-dominated sport. I’m one of the only people of colour there yet I stand alone.“I would have thought by now you would see why this happens and say something about it but you can’t stand alongside us. Just know I know who you are and I see you.”Hamilton, the six-time world champion, said he supported only peaceful protesters, not those who have looted stores and set fire to buildings.But he added: “There can be no peace until our so-called leaders make change. This is not just America, this is the UK, this is Spain, this is Italy and all over.“The way minorities are treated has to change, how you educate those in your country of equality, racism, classism and that we are all the same!“We are not born with racism and hate in our hearts, it is taught by those we look up to.”Basketball legend Jordan joined a chorus of voices from the NBA, NFL and other US sports demanding change for black Americans, but the calls weren’t limited to the United States.French footballer Marcus Thuram and England international Jadon Sancho both called for justice for Floyd after scoring in Germany’s Bundesliga."
Web Desk,What now for tennis in 2020?,2020-06-01,"PARIS: Professional tennis has been in cold storage since March due to the coronavirus pandemic with tournaments unlikely to resume before August.Here’s a look at three talking points as the sport heads into June:FANS IN OR OUT AT US OPEN AND ROLAND GARROS?— In 2019, the US Open attracted a record crowd of almost 740,000 to its sprawling Billie Jean King Tennis Centre in New York.The French Open last year at Roland Garros brought in 520,000 paying customers.However, the 2020 editions of the two remaining Grand Slam events on the calendar will look very different with the chance of them being played behind closed doors a real possibility to avoid the spread of the coronavirus.Roger Federer, whose 20-Grand Slam title haul includes five titles at the US Open and one in Paris, is not keen on seeing rows and rows of empty seats.“I can’t bear to see an empty stadium. I hope that won’t happen,” the Swiss star was quoted as saying by Brazilian media recently.Two-time Wimbledon winner Petra Kvitova said she too has no desire to play a Slam with without spectators.“I would like to play another Grand Slam, but if it’s like this, I’d rather cancel them,” Kvitova said.“Playing without fans who are our engine doesn’t look nice to me and the Grand Slam doesn’t deserve it.”As far as the rescheduled Roland Garros in September and October is concerned, Jean-Francois Vilotte, the director-general of the French Tennis Federation (FFT), told AFP: “The aim is that there will be spectators.”“But we will have the capacity to organise Roland Garros whatever the option decided, including behind closed doors.”MONEY MATTERS?— There has been no prize money to play for over the best part of three months but that hasn’t stopped it being discussed.The ATP and WTA tours, the International Tennis Federation and the four Grand Slam tournaments — the Australian Open, Roland Garros, Wimbledon and the US Open backed a fund worth more than $6 million to support low-ranked players hardest hit by the coronavirus pandemic.World number one Novak Djokovic had already said that he, Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal — the sport’s biggest earners with over $100 million each banked in prize money alone — were also willing to help.However, world number three Dominic Thiem was not keen on giving money to lower-ranked players.“Quite honestly I have to say that no tennis player will be fighting to survive, even those who are much lower-ranked,” said the Austrian.Marion Bartoli, the 2013 Wimbledon champion, chimed in last week by suggesting a reduction in doubles events with prize money diverted to struggling players.“You just don’t make the same effort (in doubles) as a singles player. You don’t practise so much, your routine is different.“I don’t know if we have to stop doubles completely, but to get less money and give that money to qualification and others, that could be the solution.”ARE WE MAKING AN EXHIBITION OF OURSELVES?— There is some tennis going on in the world at a series of tightly-controlled exhibition events.Germany kicked it off on May 1 with an eight-man exhibition in the tiny town of Hoehr-Grenzhausen, near Koblenz which featured Dustin Brown, who famously defeated Rafael Nadal at Wimbledon in 2015.Strict rules over health and safety meant there were no fans, no ball boys or girls and no line judges. There was just a chair umpire.Handshakes were banned, players handled their own towels and brought their own water and fruit to the clay courts.Similar events followed in the US before Petra Kvitova won an all-Czech event in Prague last week.“The gloves, face masks, the fact nobody handed us the towels, no handshakes, that was definitely bizarre,” said Kvitova.Other exhibitions are scheduled including a World Team Tennis tournament in West Virginia in July featuring Australian Open champion Sofia Kenin and 2017 US Open winner Sloane Stephens.Andy Murray will return from his latest injury problem on June 23 in a charity tournament in London.Nick Kyrgios joins Dominic Thiem at a grasscourt event – likely the only one this summer – at Berlin’s Tempelhof Airport from July 17-19."
Web Desk,"‘Calm down!’: Waqar Younis tells cricketers Afridi, Gambhir to end social media spat",2020-06-01,"NEW DELHI/ISLAMABAD: Former Pakistan star Waqar Younis has called on all-rounder Shahid Afridi and cricketer-turned-politician Gautam Gambhir to end their social media war and for India and Pakistan to resume playing cricket.After being fierce on-field rivals, Pakistan’s Afridi and former Indian opener Gambhir have become involved in heated social media exchanges over the troubled Kashmir region.Gambhir is now a lawmaker in the Indian parliament, while Afridi has his own foundation and is a vocal activist.Waqar advised the pair to “calm down” in an online chat show.“The banter between Gautam Gambhir and Shahid Afridi has been going on for a while now. I think they both got to be smart, sensible, and calm down,” said Waqar.“It has been going on for way too long. My advice to them is to maybe catch up somewhere around the world and talk it out if you cannot really calm it down.”India and Pakistan have not played a series since 2012-2013 and have hit a new peak in tensions over Kashmir, which they have fought over since their independence in 1947.India frequently accuses Pakistan of organising militant attacks in the sector of the Himalayan region that it administers.Waqar, 48, said a cricket series would boost relations between the arch-rival neighbours.“I think that it would be the biggest hit of the world,” said Waqar. “I think Pakistan [and] India should play, and should play on a regular basis to avoid depriving cricket lovers.”"
Web Desk,Bumrah says cricket should seek ‘alternative’ to saliva for shining the ball,2020-06-01,"NEW DELHI: Indian pace bowler Jasprit Bumrah said if the International Cricket Council (ICC) is going to ban the use of saliva on cricket ball during the coronavirus pandemic, then it should allow an “alternative” for shining the ball.The ICC is likely to implement a ban for the game’s return when they meet next week after receiving medical advice that spit poses a Covid-19 transmission risk.Handshakes, celebratory high-fives and hugs are also likely to be off-limits when international cricket resumes with safety protocols in place.“I was not much of a hugger anyway, and not a high-five person as well, so that doesn’t trouble me a lot,” Bumrah said in an ICC video chat with the former West Indies pace bowler Ian Bishop and the ex-captain of South Africa, Shaun Pollock.“The only thing that interests me is the saliva bit,” added the 26-year-old Bumrah.“I don’t know what guidelines that we have to follow when we come back, but I feel there should be an alternative.“If the ball is not well maintained, it’s difficult for the bowlers. The grounds are getting shorter and shorter, the wickets are becoming flatter and flatter. So we need something.”Pace bowlers usually try to make the ball swing through the air by shining one side on their clothing aided by using sweat or saliva and leaving the other half to become scuffed.Anil Kumble, chairman of the ICC cricket committee that recommended banning saliva, insisted the move was only an “interim measure”.Australian cricket ball manufacturer Kookaburra is developing a wax applicator that allows players to shine the ball without using saliva or sweat.But its use would need a change in the laws of cricket which forbid the use of any artificial substance to alter the ball.Test players have in the past been accused of using lozenges, petroleum jelly and resin to keep the shine on the ball, and also scuffing it with bottle tops, trouser zippers, grit or fingernails.The most notorious recent incident was in 2018, when Australian players attempted to alter the ball with sandpaper during a Test against South Africa in Cape Town, resulting in lengthy bans for the three involved — Steve Smith, David Warner and Cameron Bancroft.Bumrah, who has emerged as India’s lead paceman since his Test debut in 2018, has claimed 68 wickets in 14 Tests and 104 scalps in 64 one-day internationals."
Web Desk,Sri Lanka’s cricket team resume outdoor training after virus halt,2020-05-31,"by Agencies , (Last Updated May 31, 2020)COLOMBO: Sri Lanka’s cricket team will resume training Monday under strict health measures after a two-and-a-half-month hiatus forced by coronavirus, the country’s governing body said.Cricket came to a halt on March 13 when the visiting England team pulled out on the second day of a four-day practice match ahead of their two-Test series.A 13-member squad will take part in a 12-day training session, starting with fitness sessions from Monday at a hotel in the capital Colombo, Sri Lanka Cricket said Sunday.Ground training will start on Tuesday, the governing body added.The players will be joined by a four-member team of coaches and assistants.“Members taking part in the camp will not be allowed to leave the hotel premises or the practice venue to attend personal matters,” it added in a statement.“The players taking part in the camp represents a general squad chosen from across all formats, and primarily consist of bowlers, as they need more time for ‘conditioning’ before going into active competition.”The Test series against England was put off indefinitely after the pandemic halted major sporting events worldwide.Sri Lanka has reported 1,620 infections and 10 deaths since the first virus case was detected on January 27.Coach Mickey Arthur had customised home-training regimes for many players in the national team after the lockdown was imposed.Former Sri Lankan sports minister Dayasiri Jayasekara in 2017 slammed the national team as “too fat and unfit to field five-day Test matches”.The comments came after they suffered a humiliating one-day series defeat against bottom-ranked Zimbabwe and an early exit from the Champions Trophy.Sri Lanka later overhauled the coaching team and Arthur has said he was keeping in touch with each player to monitor their progress before international competition resumes."
Web Desk,Villa’s Mings says Premier League return driven by finance,2020-05-31,"LONDON: Aston Villa defender Tyrone Mings says players were the “last to be consulted” over the Premier League’s “financially driven” plan to restart in June.The English top-flight is scheduled to resume on June 17 after being suspended since March due to the coronavirus.But Mings is adamant players should have had more say over the return to training and imminent match action amid the continued threat of the pandemic.He believes the decision is motivated by fear of losing millions if the Premier League did not finish the current campaign.Mings is the latest Premier League player to express concern about the restart after Manchester City’s Sergio Aguero, Newcastle’s Danny Rose and Watford’s Troy Deeney.“The motives are possibly 100 percent financially driven rather than integrity driven,” Mings told the Mail on Sunday.“Project Restart is financially driven. I think everybody accepts that.“I am all for playing again because we have no other choice. As players, we were the last people to be consulted about Project Restart and that is because of where we fall in football’s order of priority. That isn’t a problem.“We got the option to come back to training and that’s fine because we didn’t have to.“But if the FA and the EFL and the government and UEFA and the Premier League all say you are going back to play, it really doesn’t make any difference what the players think because you are going back to play. It is get in or get out.”"
Web Desk,West Indies approve ‘bio-secure’ Test tour of England,2020-05-30,"TRINIDAD: West Indies cricket chiefs have given their approval to a Test tour of England where the team will stay in a “bio-secure environment”.The Windies were due to play three Tests in England in June but the threat of the coronavirus has pushed the visit back to July at the earliest.“The Cricket West Indies (CWI) board gave approval in principle for the proposed upcoming West Indies Test tour of England,” said a CWI statement on Friday.“The decision comes only after CWI medical and cricket-related representatives and advisors have been involved in detailed discussions with the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB), and their own medical and public health advisers.”It added: “CWI has also received and reviewed detailed plans for players and staff to be kept in a bio-secure environment for the duration of the tour, with all matches being played behind closed doors.”The ECB has proposed the Tests start on July 8, 16 and 24 at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton and Manchester’s Old Trafford.Both those venues have on-site hotels.A number of West Indies players are already back in training, with fast bowler Kemar Roach saying he was looking forward to the tour.But CWI chief executive Johnny Grave admitted some players may be more reluctant, especially from countries such as Antigua and Barbuda, which has not reported a new coronavirus case since April.“There has been some nervousness from the players and certainly here in Antigua,” he told BBC Radio. “We’ve been very open and honest with them and sharing plans from the day we got them from the ECB.“I think that’s helped players understand what this tour might look like, and from all the players that I’ve spoken to, there’s an eagerness to go to England and get some live cricket back on.“Certainly we won’t be coercing anyone to go and play. Safety is the number one priority for us and we fully respect any individual player who may not be comfortable to travel.”Meanwhile, the CWI said the touring party will use private charter planes while medical screenings and individual COVID-19 testing will take place for all players and staff.England are also scheduled to host matches against Pakistan, Ireland and Australia this year."
Web Desk,Australia set dates for Covid threatened India cricket tour,2020-05-28,"PERTH: Australia announced dates for India’s lucrative Test cricket tour as the centrepiece of a busy home season on Thursday, but admitted that plans remained in flux because of the coronavirus.Cricket Australia CEO Kevin Roberts said the picture was “evolving every day” as he unveiled men’s fixtures against Zimbabwe, the West Indies and Afghanistan, as well as India.Australia are also due to host the men’s Twenty20 World Cup in October and November.Australia’s women, crowned T20 world champions in Melbourne in March — as the pandemic closed in on world sport — will host New Zealand and India.“We know that circumstances or events beyond our control could mean that the final schedule potentially may look different to the one released today,” Roberts said in a statement.“But we’ll be doing everything we can to get as much international cricket in as possible this summer.”The men’s Tests against India are scheduled to start in Brisbane on December 3, followed by Adelaide from December 11, the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne and Sydney from January 3.Australia this month dethroned India as the world’s top-ranked Test team, setting up the series as a blockbuster.Crucially, it would also generate hundreds of millions of dollars for a host organisation struggling during the coronavirus shutdown.Revenue from the series is so important to Cricket Australia that it has proposed adding a fifth Test, which would mean ditching the one-off Test against Afghanistan in Perth from November 21.India have said they are prepared to undergo quarantine to make the series happen. Australia’s borders are currently closed to non-residents as a measure against coronavirus.“We are engaged in ongoing discussions with federal and state governments, our venues and the touring nations to continually understand and monitor the situation in front of us, which is evolving every day,” Roberts said.Final details of the men’s three-match one-day international series with Zimbabwe, scheduled to start on August 9, will be confirmed at a later date, CA said.Australia’s men then welcome the West Indies for three T20s from October 4, before three T20s against India, followed by the Afghan Test and the India Test series."
Web Desk,Shashank Manohar to step down as ICC chairman,2020-05-28,"DUBAI: The International Cricket Council (ICC) on Wednesday confirmed that chairman Shashank Manohar will step down when his term ends this year.The ICC is set to discuss the process to elect its new chief at its board meeting on Thursday with media reports saying that the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) chief Colin Graves is favourite to fill the post.“No final decision was taken regarding the election process and the subject will be discussed further at the next ICC Board meeting on Thursday,” the ICC said in a statement.“The existing Chair confirmed he was not seeking an extension to his term but would support the board to ensure a smooth transition.”The ICC president used to head the board of directors but the position largely became honorary after constitutional changes in 2014 saw the creation of the chairman’s post.But Manohar initiated further reforms in 2016 and became the first independent chairman of the governing body with no formal links to any other country’s board. The position of the ICC president was also abolished then.Prominent Indian lawyer Manohar was unanimously elected on a two-year term but resigned for personal reasons in March, 2017, only to defer his resignation a week later. He was re-elected unopposed for a second two-year term in 2018.The new chairman is set to formally take over when the ICC’s annual general meeting is held at the end of July.The name of Sourav Ganguly, the president of the powerful Indian cricket board (BCCI), has also made the rounds with Cricket South Africa director Graeme Smith backing the former India captain to take over the reins of the ICC.BCCI treasurer Arun Singh Dhumal told Reuters that the board had not discussed the matter yet but is open to Ganguly succeeding Manohar, provided there is consensus on it.“BCCI has not taken any call on fielding anyone from India for the job,” Dhumal said. “The election process has not started yet. Once the election date is announced, we’ll discuss with all cricket boards and take a call.“Ideally there should be a consensus candidate so that there is no election as world cricket is facing a big problem because of the pandemic. To resolve it, everyone has to come together.”"
Web Desk,Shashank Manohar to step down as ICC chairman,2020-05-28,"DUBAI: The International Cricket Council (ICC) on Wednesday confirmed that chairman Shashank Manohar will step down when his term ends this year.The ICC is set to discuss the process to elect its new chief at its board meeting on Thursday with media reports saying that the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) chief Colin Graves is favourite to fill the post.“No final decision was taken regarding the election process and the subject will be discussed further at the next ICC Board meeting on Thursday,” the ICC said in a statement.“The existing Chair confirmed he was not seeking an extension to his term but would support the board to ensure a smooth transition.”The ICC president used to head the board of directors but the position largely became honorary after constitutional changes in 2014 saw the creation of the chairman’s post.But Manohar initiated further reforms in 2016 and became the first independent chairman of the governing body with no formal links to any other country’s board. The position of the ICC president was also abolished then.Prominent Indian lawyer Manohar was unanimously elected on a two-year term but resigned for personal reasons in March, 2017, only to defer his resignation a week later. He was re-elected unopposed for a second two-year term in 2018.The new chairman is set to formally take over when the ICC’s annual general meeting is held at the end of July.The name of Sourav Ganguly, the president of the powerful Indian cricket board (BCCI), has also made the rounds with Cricket South Africa director Graeme Smith backing the former India captain to take over the reins of the ICC.BCCI treasurer Arun Singh Dhumal told Reuters that the board had not discussed the matter yet but is open to Ganguly succeeding Manohar, provided there is consensus on it.“BCCI has not taken any call on fielding anyone from India for the job,” Dhumal said. “The election process has not started yet. Once the election date is announced, we’ll discuss with all cricket boards and take a call.“Ideally there should be a consensus candidate so that there is no election as world cricket is facing a big problem because of the pandemic. To resolve it, everyone has to come together.”"
Web Desk,Serie A await govt green light after three-month suspension,2020-05-28,"ROME: Serie A will learn the fate of the Italian season on Thursday with a government decision awaited on whether football can resume after three months in a country hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic. Sports Minister Vincenzo Spadafora will hold a video conference at 6:30pm (1630GMT) with representatives of Italian football including federation (FIGC) president Gabriele Gravina and Lega Serie A chief Paolo Dal Pino.Italian football bosses are hopeful that Italy can follow the German Bundesliga, which has already returned to the pitch, and Spain’s La Liga which prepares to kick off again on June 8.The season has been on hold since March 9 when it was halted as coronavirus infections spread rapidly in Italy. The pandemic has killed more than 33,000 people in the country.Opposition has been particularly strong in Lombardy, the region most affected by the epidemic with nearly 16,000 deaths alone, and where four Serie A clubs play: Inter Milan, AC Milan, Atalanta and Brescia.But there are strong indications that Spadafora, who just a month ago said he was “very skeptical” about the possibility of a return, will finally give the green light.Italy have started to ease their strict lockdown measures and the daily figures have been reassuring, even if the virus is still circulating, especially in Lombardy.The prospect of seeing Juventus and Lazio compete for the title has become acceptable again.Italian football bosses want competition to resume on June 13, with the possibility of starting with Italian Cup semi-finals, followed by a full return to competition on June 20.The worst-case scenario would be a government refusal to return to action which, like in France, would signal the end of the season.But even in the event of a government green light on Thursday, the football world will have to complete the health protocol applicable for competition.THORNY QUARANTINE DILEMMAMany issues remain to be resolved including match schedules, players’ contracts which end on June 30 and unpaid TV rights by broadcasters.But the thorniest remains the two-week quarantine period in the case of a positive test.Bologna on Wednesday announced a “suspicious case” among one of their coaching staff.Pending final results, the team have returned to individual training.Above all, players and staff members must, if the positive test is confirmed, submit to a two-week quarantine period.Football authorities remain hopeful that with the curb of contagions falling they can request that the quarantine period be reduced to seven days and that it no longer be collective.“I’m ready to bet on the resumption of the championship, but with this rule of quarantine of 14 days, the possibilities of carrying it out are not immense,” said Enrico Castellacci, president of the Italian Football Doctors Association.“I’m not going to quarantine people who are in good health. We don’t do this if there is a positive case in a factory,” argued Lazio team doctor Ivo Pulcini, with the Roman club committed to a resumption of the championship, as they sit just one point behind leaders Juventus.But first teams need the green light from Spadafora, who has blown hot and cold on calcio throughout the crisis.Sports daily Corriere dello Sport warned that the minister was “a formidable specialist in traps and surprises”.“Spadafora, no jokes!” wrote daily Tuttosport.The Turin newspaper recalled that accounting for one percent of GDP and more than 1.2 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in taxes paid, football is not a trivial sector for the Italian economy."
Web Desk,Kobe Bryant’s induction to hall of fame postponed: report,2020-05-28,"NEW YORK CITY: The late Kobe Bryant’s induction into America’s basketball hall of fame has been postponed to 2021, US media reported on Wednesday. Bryant, who died along with eight others in a helicopter crash in January, was scheduled to be inducted into the Massachusetts-based Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame on August 29.Former NBA stars Tim Duncan, Kevin Garnett and six others are also slated to be enshrined next year due to the ongoing global coronavirus pandemic.“We’re definitely canceling,” Hall of Fame spokesman Jerry Colangelo told ESPN on Wednesday. “It’s going to have to be the first quarter of next year. (The board will) meet in a couple of weeks and look at the options of how and when and where.”Bryant died January 26 at age 41 in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California that also claimed the life of his 13-year-old daughter, Gianna, and seven others.Bryant was an 18-time NBA all-star, five-time NBA champion and three-time NBA finals MVP in a two-decade career with the Los Angeles Lakers."
Web Desk,Premier League clubs vote to resume contact training,2020-05-27,"LONDON: Premier League clubs voted unanimously on Wednesday to resume contact training as the English top-flight took a significant step towards a possible restart in June.The Premier League was put on hold in March due to the coronavirus pandemic, with Liverpool agonisingly close to the title.Clubs returned to training in small and socially distanced groups last week but they have now moved to stage two of the “return to training protocol”.“Premier League shareholders today voted unanimously to resume contact training, marking another step towards restarting the Premier League season, when safe to do so,” the league said in a statement.“Squads are now able to train as a group and engage in tackling while minimising any unnecessary close contact.”It added: “Discussions are ongoing as work continues towards resuming the season, when conditions allow.”The small number of positive tests from the first two rounds of testing at Premier League clubs has raised hopes of a return next month.Eight cases of coronavirus among players and staff have been detected from 1,744 tests in the Premier League.In the second-tier Championship, just two positive tests were registered from 1,014 tests.A targeted return date of June 12 was described by Premier League chief executive Richard Masters last week as a “staging post”.Players and coaches have argued they will need until at least the end of June to reduce the risk of injuries after such a long lay-off.Some players have voiced fears over their safety and that of their families due to the virus.Watford captain Troy Deeney has not returned to training after three positive cases were registered by the Hornets over concerns he could spread the virus to his five-month-old son.French World Cup winner N’Golo Kante has also been given permission by Chelsea to train at home.Germany’s Bundesliga has already managed to complete two rounds of fixtures since returning behind closed doors and there has been little player opposition to La Liga’s plans to return in Spain from June 11.Liverpool captain Jordan Henderson said playing at an empty Anfield and winning the Premier League title with no fans present would be “pretty strange”.Liverpool were 25 points clear of 2019 champions Manchester City when the league was shut down, on the verge of being crowned English champions for the first time in 30 years.“Of course it would feel different because if you win any trophy and receive it without any fans there, it would be pretty strange,” he told the BBC.“We still have work to do and we still need to perform at a high level right the way until the season finishes because we want to finish as strongly as we can to make sure it is a full season,” he added."
Web Desk,Sri Lankan cricketer suspended from playing after heroin arrest,2020-05-27,"COLOMBOAGENCIESSri Lanka´s cricket board Tuesday suspended pace bowler Shehan Madushanka from all forms of the game, two days after he was arrested allegedly in possession of heroin.The right-arm bowler was stopped while driving with another person in a car on Sunday and found to have two grams of the drug, police said.He took a hat-trick against Bangladesh on his one-day international debut in January 2018. He also played two T20 matches against Bangladesh in 2018, but has not played an international since due to injuries.Sri Lanka Cricket secretary Mohan de Silva said they suspended the 25-year-old pending an internal disciplinary inquiry. He was remanded into custody on Monday.“We have suspended him with immediate effect and he also cannot take part in any form of the game,” de Silva said."
Web Desk,"ICC preps for T20 World Cup, denies claims over postponement",2020-05-27,"DUBAI: The International Cricket Council (ICC) has said that it will be continuing its preparations for the T20 World Cup as per schedule and will not be postponing the tournament due to the coronavirus pandemic.Media reports in India said ICC members had come to an understanding that this year’s event would be pushed back to 2022 due to the coronavirus pandemic.The ICC board is to meet on Thursday to discuss several issues related to the pandemic and its members will also address the fate of the World Cup, which is due to be played at stadiums around Australia from Oct. 18 to Nov. 15.“The ICC has not taken a decision to postpone the T20 World Cup and preparations are ongoing for the event in Australia this year as per plan,” a spokesman for the governing body told Reuters.“This is on the agenda for the ICC Board meeting tomorrow and a decision will be taken in due course.”Australia has been among the most successful nations in containing the spread of the new coronavirus but travel restrictions remain in place with several state and territory borders still closed.A Cricket Australia spokeswoman told Reuters she was unaware of any decision being taken to postpone the World Cup.The Indian cricket board (BCCI), which is set to host the following edition of the tournament in 2021, is keeping a close eye on developments as a postponement could open up a window for this year’s Indian Premier League.The lucrative franchise-based tournament, which was supposed to start at the end of March, had to be postponed indefinitely due to the pandemic and the BCCI could see a $530 million dip in revenue if it fails to find another window for the competition.Australia fast bowler Pat Cummins told reporters on Wednesday that the IPL would be a great stand-in if the World Cup was postponed.“You have millions and millions around the world watching that format and I’m sure this year could potentially be even more after a long break off cricket,” he added."
Web Desk,Favre hints at Dortmund exit after Bayern defeat,2020-05-27,"MUNICH: Swiss coach Lucien Favre has hinted that he may leave Borussia Dortmund at the end of the season after defeat by Bayern Munich left his team seven points adrift of the champions in the Bundesliga title race with six games left.For the second season running under Favre, second-placed Dortmund find themselves wanting at the tail end of the campaign with Bayern now firmly on course for an eighth straight league title.The Swiss gave a resigned grin when asked if Tuesday’s 1-0 home loss to Bayern behind closed doors, settled by Joshua Kimmich’s deft chip, proved Favre does not have what it takes for Dortmund to break Bayern’s monopoly on the German league.“That’s been said here for months,” said Favre, 62, who has a year left on his Dortmund contract.“I know how these things go and I will talk about it in a few weeks.“I’m staying calm and I trust in myself.”The home defeat in Dortmund came on the back of a 4-0 drubbing at the hands of Bayern last November at Munich’s Allianz Arena.According to German daily Bild on Wednesday, Dortmund’s bosses made contact “in the past few months” with Niko Kovac, who was sacked by Bayern in November, as a possible successor to Favre.After Favre said he will make a future announcement, Germany legend and Sky pundit Lothar Matthaeus commented “as soon as I heard that, I thought ‘Favre will leave and Kovac will come'”.Bild also claim that RB Leipzig coach Julian Nagelsmann is Dortmund’s ideal candidate, but the 32-year-old is under contract until 2023.Favre has all but waved the white flag on bridging the gap in the table, even though Bayern must still face Borussia Moenchengladbach and Bayer Leverkusen, who have already both beaten them this season.“It’s going be difficult – seven points (to make up) in six games, that is brutally hard,” said Favre.The Swiss fell offside with Dortmund fans last season when he conceded the 2018/19 title race was “over” after a 4-2 home defeat by Schalke left them three points behind Bayern with three games left."
Web Desk,NHL to restart with 24-team playoff in two hub cities,2020-05-27,"CALGARY: The National Hockey League (NHL) announced Tuesday it will abandon the rest of the regular season and proceed directly to a 24-team playoff staged in two hub cities. NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said the revised schedule would “produce a worthy Stanley Cup champion” after a season that has been put on hold by the coronavirus pandemic.However Bettman offered no fixed date on when play would resume, while the two cities due to host the playoffs were also yet to be decided. Formal training camps won’t open until July 1 at the earliest, he added.The NHL season has been on pause since March 12 due to the COVID-19 outbreak, and all players currently remain under league-mandated quarantine.Bettman said 10 cities are in the running for the two hub centers, including seven from the US: Chicago, Columbus, Dallas, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Minneapolis, Pittsburgh. The three Canadian cities are Toronto, Vancouver and Edmonton.Bettman said the league had drawn up a long-list of candidate cities in order to retain scheduling flexibility.“We didn’t want to get locked in. We don’t want to go to a place where there is a lot of COVID-19 or we don’t want to go to a place where we can’t get the testing we need,” he said.“There is going to be extensive testing. It must be available on a wide-scale basis without obstructing local needs.”Border snagAlthough three Canadian cities are in the running, Bettman later told reporters that unless Canada lifts mandatory 14-day quarantine rules, the NHL will not be heading north of the US border.“We don’t need to make a decision today. We’ll probably need to make one in three to four weeks, and at that point we would be able to better evaluate how COVID‑19 is in a particular place,” Bettman said.He reiterated earlier reports that the playoff format would begin with the best-of-five series, but the Stanley Cup final would be the traditional best-of-seven.“We anticipate playing into the late summer and early fall,” he said.Under the proposed schedule, the top four seeds in each conference would play a round-robin tournament for first-round seedings.The top four seeds in the Eastern Conference hub city would be the Boston Bruins, Tampa Bay Lightning, Washington Capitals and Philadelphia Flyers.The top four Western Conference teams would be the St. Louis Blues, Colorado Avalanche, Vegas Golden Knights and Dallas Stars.The other 16 teams in both conferences would play in the best-of-five first round.The rest of the bracketed playoff format for the Eastern Conference would have Pittsburgh (5) vs. Montreal (12), Carolina (six) vs. New York Rangers (11), the New York Islanders (seven) vs. Florida (10) and Toronto (eight) vs. Columbus (nine).The Western matchups are Edmonton (5) vs. Chicago (12), Nashville (six) vs. Arizona (11), Vancouver (seven) vs. Minnesota (10) and Calgary (eight) vs. Winnipeg (nine).Games will be played behind closed doors without fans in the buildings.While the players and the NHL have agreed on a format, the NHL Players’ Association has not formally approved any actual return to finish the season.Bettman said the league and clubs will combine to spend millions of dollars conducting up to 30,000 tests for the players, coaches, officials and staff.“You just do the math,” he said. “Our medical advisors tell us that by the time we are doing this over the summer, it will be a relatively insignificant number relative to the number of tests that will be available.”"
Web Desk,Babar wants to talk about cricket with Imran Khan,2020-05-26,"ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s ODI and Twenty20 skipper Babar Azam wants to meet Prime Minister and legendary all-rounder Imran Khan saying he wants to learn the tactics, Kaptaan applied during the 1992 Cricket World Cup.“I had met Imran Khan but there was no talk on cricket. I will like to meet him and talk about his tactics on the field, especially during the 1992 World Cup as it will be very helpful for me,” crickpakistan.com.pk quoted him as saying.The 25-year-old, who scored 1,850 runs in 26 Tests, was also disheartened to be away from cricket for the past two months due to coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic saying we had important Tests as well as the T20 World Cup this year.“Obviously when you are playing cricket regularly, it becomes disheartening to stop all of a sudden. We do whatever when can to maintain fitness and practice at our home,” he said and added that the fans would also be missing cricket.Speaking about the upcoming tour of England, Babar said human life was more important than cricket.“Human life has far more value than cricket and the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) will only go ahead with the tour if proper health and safety measure are put in place,” he said.Pakistan were scheduled to play three Tests in August followed by an equal number of T20s, with the matches taking place behind closed doors as part of measures to combat COVID-19.Babar, who scored 3,359 runs in 74 ODIs, also spoke about playing behind closed doors while comparing it with Pakistan’s matches in United Arab Emirates (UAE).“Playing behind closed doors is not ideal because the support from fans is vital for players. We have played without crowd for almost a decade in UAE so we know how it feels,” he said.Babar, who scored 1,471 runs in 38 T20s, was also glad to see the Pakistan Super League (PSL) being played in Pakistan this year. “I’m thankful to the PCB for organizing PSL in Pakistan this year, which I thoroughly enjoyed and I’m sure the fans did as well,” he said about the league which was postponed indefinitely due to Covid-19 before the playoffs round."
Web Desk,Football clubs in dilemma over players’ transfer amid coronavirus,2020-05-26,"PARIS: Around Europe, football is waking up from the coronavirus shutdown, but it is different to before for players and supporters and it is changing behind the scenes too.While the German Bundesliga returns in stadiums devoid of fans, the sport is preparing for an economic crisis which will impact all levels of the game.That will be particularly visible in the transfer market, where it has become the norm to see leading clubs splash out 100 million-euro fees.Damien Comolli has observed events from afar having left his role at Turkish club Fenerbahce in January.The ex-Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspur sporting director told AFP he foresees fees dropping by “between 30 and 50 percent compared to the usual prices, and a reduction of 70-75 percent in terms of activity.”In particular, the loss to clubs from matchday revenue as a result of games being played behind closed doors will impact budgets.When it comes to signing players, those in charge of recruitment at clubs have also simply not been able to do their jobs.TIME TO TAKE STOCK“The biggest part of my job is following up on targets for the next transfer windows,” says Martyn Glover, head of scouting and recruitment at English Premier League side Southampton.Scouts usually spend much of their time clocking up road and air miles to watch prospective signings in action.“I would expect to be abroad every week at some point,” says Glover, who previously worked at Everton.“I might fly to Paris to watch PSG and then the next day to Germany to watch somebody else. My week would probably be three or four live games of football.”Robert McKenzie has a similar a role at Belgian second-tier outfit Leuven, who in 2017 were taken over by King Power, the Thai owners of Leicester City.Usually he would be on the road watching up to 20 games a month, eyeing up targets.“The current situation obviously has significant implications for what has historically been the most important part of the process: the assessment of players in live games,” he tells AFP.“I do often think to myself when will be the next time I’m actually sat in a football stadium watching a game? Who knows!”However, he acknowledges that the shutdown has afforded him the luxury of time to take stock and assess options.In contrast, Newcastle United made headlines when their head of recruitment, Steve Nickson, was placed on furlough along with the whole scouting department, stopping a crucial section of the club from functioning.In any case, how can a Premier League club plan for the summer window without knowing if they will still be a top-flight club next season, or if this season will restart, with all the financial consequences?“There are too many imponderables,” says Glover.“We are not a club who might spend 80 million on a player anyway.“I am sure there will be some opportunities that present themselves by the nature of what has happened, both at home and abroad, but the hardest part is the finances.”A DIFFERENT APPROACHGlover admits the way his job is done could change forever. Comolli helped introduce data use and analytics into English football and believes that approach will become more widespread.“Maybe more and more clubs will use data and statistics instead of live scouting and maybe clubs will also investigate more the player himself, their families, the way they live.“If I had one chance to go and watch a player live or one chance to meet him and his family, I would take the opportunity to go and meet him.”He believes those clubs who already placed the emphasis on video scouting and data can emerge from the crisis with their teams unscathed.Even clubs lower down may emerge stronger. That includes Leuven, although they must await the outcome of a play-off in August to see which division they will be in next season.“I think there may be opportunities that arise for us as a club as a result of the current situation which were previously thought not possible,” insists McKenzie."
Web Desk,"Social distancing, ‘safe’ ball management among ICC’s dos and don’ts",2020-05-23,"DUBAI: Players and umpires will need to keep to “social distancing” norms on and off the field. Players will not hand over personal items such as caps, sunglasses and sweaters to the umpires any more. Players should use a hand sanitiser regularly once they have had contact with the ball. Umpires should consider wearing gloves to handle the ball.These are some of the important dos listed by the ICC as guidelines for when international cricket resumes after being forced to halt in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On Friday, the ICC issued a document titled ‘Guidelines on return to cricket’ that encompasses international, domestic and community cricket. The ICC emphasised that these guidelines would need to work in synergy with government directives in individual countries on the resumption of the sport.PLAYERS AND UMPIRES – SOCIAL DISTANCE AT ALL TIMES“Players and umpires should maintain social distancing on the cricket field and that includes no handing over of player items (cap, towels, sunglasses, jumpers) to the umpire or teammates,” the ICC said. “Consider adopting a process that will assist the bowler in managing his/her items. Umpires may also be encouraged to use gloves when handling the ball.”Social distancing, the ICC said, would need to be followed even during training where players will need to keep a 1.5 metre (or what the government in the country recommends) distance between each other. Players have also been asked to come in training gear and told to use change rooms sparingly.The ICC also said “celebrations with body contact” along with sharing drinks or drink bottles, towels and equipment could “pose a risk” and hence should be “strongly discouraged”.BALL, A ‘POTENTIAL’ CARRIER OF VIRUSThe ICC also reiterated the recommendation of the ICC Cricket Committee that no saliva should be applied on the ball. The committee had recommended earlier this week that only sweat should be applied to shine the ball and not saliva or any artificial substance. Despite cricket not being a contact sport, the ICC said there were “several risks”.The ball, the ICC said, “is a potential transmission medium” and there had to be “rules” governing the “management” of the ball. “Provide players with clear guidance on the safe management of the ball. This will include regular hand sanitising when in contact with the ball; do not touch eyes, nose, and mouth after making contact with the ball; saliva should not be used on the ball.”WHAT IF A PLAYER TESTS POSITIVE?Although the document did not expand on what would happen to an ongoing match in case a player, match official or support staff member was infected by the coronavirus, the ICC said everyone in the environment would need to be tested. “Cricket requires players to be in close proximity at times and involves the use of shared facilities. Therefore, should a team member or opponent develop any CV-19 symptoms or be found to develop an infection, participants will require isolation and testing as they are most likely to have been in close contact.”MATCH OFFICIALS “VULNERABLE”Saying that those over 60 years old were the most “vulnerable” to suffer due to the pandemic, the ICC singled out match officials – umpires and match referees – along with support staff members in that category. “Participants, in particular umpires, match referees and support staff may be considered vulnerable individuals that are at higher risk of severe illness due to CV-19. This includes older individuals (approx. 60+) and people of any age with underlying medical conditions such as cardiac, kidney, diabetes, obesity, weak innate immunity, etc.“Cricket is officiated by umpires on the field of play and their health and well-being needs to be taken into full consideration as they spend the greatest amount of time in close proximity to players.”"
Web Desk,WTA pros take the court in Florida mini-tournament,2020-05-23,"FLORIDA: Americans Alison Riske and Danielle Collins and Aussie Ajla Tomljanovic were among the winners Friday on the opening day of a women’s tennis mini-tournament in Florida that offered pros a chance to play amid the coronavirus pandemic.The WTA women’s tennis tour cancelled four more events this week and won’t resume until at least July 20.But four women ranked in the top 60 in the world turned out for the UTR Pro Match Series event in Palm Beach, which followed a similar event for men two weeks ago.World number 51 Collins toppled 28th-ranked compatriot Amanda Anisimova in the opening match 4-1, 4-2 and said she was “grateful” to be back on court even with no fans in attendance.“I’m familiar with playing without fans but I definitely miss it,” she said. “One of the things that makes it so special to be a professional athlete is having people supporting you.”Tomljanovic, ranked 56th, defeated 19th-ranked Riske 4-3, 4-1 and in the final round-robin match of the day Riske beat Anisimova 0-4, 4-0, 4-3.The tournament concludes Saturday with more round-robin matches, a third-place and a championship match.All are played in a shortened format in which the first player to four games with a two-game lead pockets a set.“Just getting into the competitive spirit again was kind of got me really excited today,” said Tomljanovic.She said her first few weeks off had been a welcome break, but when she felt the need to return to training it was difficult to find motivation with no tournaments scheduled.“I need that competition to keep me going,” she said.Health protocols are in place to protect players from the threat of coronavirus. Players had their temperatures taken upon arrival at the venue and carried their own equipment and towels onto the court.With social distancing in place, a racquet tap had to suffice for a handshake, and the umpire wore a mask.Each player had her own set of marked balls and collected them herself, with no ballkids in attendance.While some areas of the United States remain under strict lockdowns, Florida has begun to open up and state officials have specifically welcomed the return of sports without spectators.The Ultimate Fighting Championship mixed martial arts outfit returned to competition in Florida in May and Tiger Woods will tee it up on Sunday with Phil Mickelson and NFL stars Tom Brady and Peyton Manning in a made-for-tv charity golf event in Hobe Sound, Florida."
Web Desk,‘Not on pitch but on console’: Euro 2020 kicks off without footballers,2020-05-23,"LONDON: Euro 2020 may have been swept from the calendar due to coronavirus, but UEFA’s video-game eTournament version kicks off on Saturday regardless. Instead of Kylian Mbappe, Harry Kane or Cristiano Ronaldo racing around the pitch, gamers will slug it out, contesting the first-ever eEuro from their armchairs.“The weight of the whole thing is on our shoulders,” said 21-year-old Frenchman Lotfi Derradji, who comes from the Paris suburbs but ‘plays’ for Monaco where he was crowned French champion in 2018.“We will represent France not on the pitch but on the console, we’re getting huge amounts of support,” said Derradji’s international and club teammate, Walid Rachid Tebane, who won the individual European title in June 2019.“We are disappointed that the Euros have been postponed but at the same time it switches more attention on to us,” added Derradji, who has been playing with international French striker – and gaming enthusiast – Antoine Griezmann.These two bespectacled eSports professionals earn 2,000-6,000 euros a month but can boost that with the 40,000 euros up for grabs this weekend and its commercial tie-ins.Electronic versionUsing a Playstation console, the group matches are a single two-versus-two contest.Matches in the knockout stages will be the best of three contests and a mixture of one-versus-one and two-versus-two. The final will be best of five.“A Kylian Mbappe will always be more fluid to play with than a Mitroglou but in the game he isn’t better than him,” explains Derradji, referring to Kostas Mitroglou a Greek striker who is on Marseille’s books.“It will never replace real football though, let’s not get carried away.“It’s not always easy to convince people about an event where the competitors are sat down.”But the popularity of online games such as Fortnite and League of Legends with a young audience is seen by UEFA as a sign that the landscape is changing.UEFA marketing director Guy-Laurent Epstein says the lockdown has been a boon for eSports.“The (games and emergence of gamers) represent an opportunity to be seized,” he says.“We have seen an explosion of events over the past few months because it represents an alternative for sports fans,” he told AFP.“And some of them have attracted significant audiences.”He added: “We hope for a minimum of four million viewers over the weekend.”“We have seen that fans deprived of sports are tuning in to watch esports competitions even if they had never done that before.”"
Web Desk,"Cricket: Bruised, not broke: Pakistan line up plans to shore up finances",2020-05-22,"NEW DELHI: The Pakistan Cricket Board is hoping for the best and preparing for the worst as it seeks to mitigate financial setbacks stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic, its chief executive, Wasim Khan, has told Reuters.On the face of it, the disruption caused by the novel coronavirus outbreak could not have come at a worse time, striking in mid-March when the Pakistan Super League (PSL), worth about $300 million to the governing body, was about to enter the knockout stage.Bangladesh were also moved to postpone the final leg of their Pakistan tour, which included the second and final test and a one-off ODI — still rare fixtures in a country which has hosted almost no international cricket for a decade.Khan, though, thinks the damage could have been a lot worse.“It was a small setback, not a huge one,” the 49-year-old said in a telephone interview.“I say that because we have successfully brought test cricket back in Pakistan … we had the MCC tour, and obviously the PSL itself was a resounding success.“We are fortunate in many ways, that we don’t have a home series now until November.”The board has already identified new windows in November-December for the remaining PSL matches, Khan said, and still hoped to complete the Bangladesh fixtures in 2021.These are not the only potential losses for the board, however, with the fate of the Asia Cup, which Pakistan was to host in September, in limbo and uncertainty still hanging over this year’s Twenty20 World Cup in Australia.“We have been working out contingency plans, so that we can understand what the landscape may look like for us in 12 months time,” he said.“The scenario planning is based on no Asia Cup happening in September, no World Cup happening in October.“We’re trying to understand what the full impact of that is, and we’ll know that in the next couple of weeks.”NEW BROADCAST DEALThe PCB is also in the process of selling its broadcast rights for the 2020-23 period.The absence of a bilateral series against India, thanks to the soured relations between the neighbours, is certain to undermine its value though.But Khan said home fixtures against South Africa, New Zealand, Australia and England over the next couple of years would offer “decent value” to broadcasters.He conceded the key would be to get England and Australia to tour Pakistan itself, rather than continue to force their “home” matches be played in the United Arab Emirates for security reasons.Pakistan’s two-match series against Sri Lanka in December was the first test action in the country since the deadly 2009 attack on a bus carrying the Sri Lankan touring party.“The progress that we’ve made, there is absolutely no reason why they shouldn’t be touring in 2022,” he added.“We’ll continue to work with those cricket boards, as we will be with New Zealand and South Africa, to ensure we provide the security provision that they expect.”Khan felt the 40-odd international cricketers who played in the PSL could help convince teams to tour Pakistan.“We want these players to go back and tell their countrymen this is now what is it like in Pakistan,” he said. “It’s as safe as anywhere in the world.”With the same conviction, the PCB has ambitions to host ICC events in the 2023-31 cycle.“By 2023, we’ll be further down the line and mature further in how we run large-scale events,” Khan said. “We will be doing everything we possibly can with a strong case for to host those events from 2023.”"
Web Desk,Graeme Smith calls for Sourav Ganguly to be next ICC chairman,2020-05-21,"JOHANNESBURG: South African director of cricket Graeme Smith on Thursday made a strong call for India’s Sourav Ganguly to be the next chairman of the International Cricket Council.Smith said he believed Ganguly, a fellow former Test captain and current Indian board president, was the right person to lead the game at a time of crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.“It is very important to have the right person as head of the ICC,” said Smith.“Post-Covid, cricket will need strong leadership and it is time for someone close to the modern game with leadership credentials to get into the position.”Shashank Manohar, the current chairman of ICC, also from India, said last December that he would not seek re-election when his term expires at the end of May.Speaking in a tele-conference, Smith made his call for Ganguly’s election after Cricket South Africa interim chief director Jacques Faul said plans for South Africa to host a three-match Twenty20 series against India in late August remained on track, although it would require approval from both governments in view of Covid-19.Faul said that the dates could change and that “if necessary” the matches would be played without spectators.Faul said that he welcomed Smith’s call for Ganguly to head the ICC, but cautioned that it was not yet official policy endorsed by the CSA board.Dr Shuaib Manjra, CSA’s chief medical officer, said a T20 series would be an ideal opportunity to create what he described as a spectator-free “bio bubble” in which the health of players and officials was paramount.He acknowledged that under current conditions, a 14-day quarantine period, both before and after a tour, would be necessary for players.Smith said a planned South African tour of the West Indies, scheduled to start in July, was likely to be delayed, depending on the finalisation of plans for the West Indies to tour England. He said it was possible that matches could be played at neutral venues. “Nothing is cast in stone at the moment,” he said."
Web Desk,‘Insensitive’ Japan Olympic coronavirus logo pulled after row,2020-05-21,"TOKYO: A satirical mock-up depicting the Tokyo Olympics logo as the new coronavirus has been pulled after Olympic organisers branded it “insensitive” and said it infringed copyright.The design combines the distinctive, spiky image of the coronavirus cell with the blue-and-white Tokyo 2020 logo, and appeared on the front page of an in-house magazine published by the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of Japan (FCCJ).The Tokyo 2020 Olympics have been postponed until next year because of the coronavirus, which has killed hundreds of thousands of people and halted sport worldwide.FCCJ president Khaldon Azhari said Thursday the club had decided to withdraw the image and remove it from its website after advice that its legal defence against a potential copyright breach was “not strong”.“More importantly, we are all in this coronavirus crisis together and clearly the cover offended some people in our host country Japan,” said Azhari, voicing “sincere regret”.Tokyo 2020 chief executive Toshiro Muto hailed the move, telling reporters: “We believe their response was appropriate and this is what we were hoping for as an outcome.”Speaking to reporters on Monday, Tokyo 2020’s chief spokesman Masa Takaya had blasted the emblem as “very disappointing”.He said it was also an infringement of the copyright owned by Tokyo 2020, and revealed that top Olympic bosses had requested that the FCCJ remove the image.“I also have to say this is insensitive to many people being affected by this damaging and painful situation,” said Takaya.“It is especially insensitive to athletes who are willing to compete in the Tokyo 2020 Games next year and working very hard every day for next year’s Games.”Although the circulation of the magazine is tiny, this is not the first time Tokyo 2020 has become embroiled in a dispute over its logo.It was forced to scrap its original emblem after claims of plagiarism from a Belgian designer, who said it was “virtually identical” to his logo for a theatre in Liege, eastern Belgium.Tokyo 2020 organisers are facing the giant task of reorganising the Olympics for next year after IOC president Thomas Bach and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe decided to postpone the Games by a year.The postponement, announced on March 24, coincided with the beginning of a spike in coronavirus cases in Tokyo and throughout Japan.After several weeks under a state of emergency during which residents have been urged to stay at home, Tokyo is now seeing only a handful of new coronavirus cases per day."
Web Desk,England bowlers lead the way as cricketers resume training,2020-05-20,"LONDON: England bowlers are set to report for training on Thursday, leading the way as cricket chiefs step up plans to start a season heavily delayed by the coronavirus pandemic.The global health crisis has put matches on hold in England until July 1 at the earliest while in other countries the season is already over.Despite the pandemic, the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) is still planning to stage a full home international programme, starting with a three-Test series against the West Indies, which was originally scheduled for June.The ECB has announced that up to 18 bowlers will be involved from Thursday.Edgbaston, Hove, Old Trafford, the Oval, the Riverside, Taunton and Trent Bridge will stage at least one session, before batsmen and wicketkeepers become involved from June 1.The bowlers’ identities have yet to be made public but the choice of venues indicates that James Anderson (Old Trafford) and Stuart Broad (Trent Bridge) will be among the leading England bowlers training at their home county grounds.Bowlers will have to bring their own kit, including designated cricket balls, wash their hands regularly, and clean any equipment used with disinfectant wipes.England managing director Ashley Giles said last week he wanted the training sessions to be safer than a trip to a supermarket.As well as the West Indies Test series, England’s cricket schedule includes three Tests against Pakistan and limited-overs matches against Australia and Ireland, with the fixtures set to be played behind closed doors at bio-secure venues.ECB chief executive Tom Harrison has warned a season without any matches at all could cost the board £380 million ($465 million)."
Web Desk,Cricket Australia explore possibilities to disinfect ball to lower health risk,2020-05-20,"MELBOURNE: The head of Cricket Australia’s (CA) medical team on Wednesday said that they are exploring the possibility of disinfecting the ball during matches to minimise the health risk to players during the COVID-19 pandemic.Players’ health is a major concern as the game seeks to return from the coronavirus shutdown and the International Cricket Council’s cricket committee has recommended a ban on shining the ball with saliva.“Disinfecting the ball is a consideration,” CA Sports Science and Sports Medicine Manager Alex Kountouris said in a video-conference.“We don’t know the impact on the ball because we haven’t tested it. We’d obviously have to test it, we’d have to speak to the ICC and get permission…”“The ball being leather, it’s harder to disinfect because it’s got little nooks and crevices.“So we don’t know how effective it’s going to be, we don’t know how infected the ball is going to get and we don’t know if it’s going to be allowed.“But it’s absolutely a consideration. Everything is on the table at the moment, everything is being considered.”Kountouris said the proposed ban on shining the ball with saliva would be difficult for players to get used to.“Some people are used to licking their fingers before they grab the ball. People are used to shining the ball with their fingers … there are going to be mistakes at some point,” he added.“I imagine we are going to take a commonsense approach and understand that people make mistakes and things are not going to be perfect.”"
Web Desk,Cricket Australia explore possibilities to disinfect ball to lower health risk,2020-05-20,"MELBOURNE: The head of Cricket Australia’s (CA) medical team on Wednesday said that they are exploring the possibility of disinfecting the ball during matches to minimise the health risk to players during the COVID-19 pandemic.Players’ health is a major concern as the game seeks to return from the coronavirus shutdown and the International Cricket Council’s cricket committee has recommended a ban on shining the ball with saliva.“Disinfecting the ball is a consideration,” CA Sports Science and Sports Medicine Manager Alex Kountouris said in a video-conference.“We don’t know the impact on the ball because we haven’t tested it. We’d obviously have to test it, we’d have to speak to the ICC and get permission…”“The ball being leather, it’s harder to disinfect because it’s got little nooks and crevices.“So we don’t know how effective it’s going to be, we don’t know how infected the ball is going to get and we don’t know if it’s going to be allowed.“But it’s absolutely a consideration. Everything is on the table at the moment, everything is being considered.”Kountouris said the proposed ban on shining the ball with saliva would be difficult for players to get used to.“Some people are used to licking their fingers before they grab the ball. People are used to shining the ball with their fingers … there are going to be mistakes at some point,” he added.“I imagine we are going to take a commonsense approach and understand that people make mistakes and things are not going to be perfect.”"
Web Desk,India’s Kohli says father refused to bribe way into team,2020-05-19,"MUMBAI: India captain Virat Kohli has told how his late father refused to pay a bribe to get him into a Delhi state junior team when he was a teenager.The world’s top ranked one-day batsman did not identify who had demanded the bribe but said he was rejected by the team, a rebuff that left him “broken”.“In my home state… sometimes things happen that are not fair,” the Times of India newspaper and other media quoted Kohli as saying during an online forum with India’s football captain Sunil Chhetri.“On one occasion, a certain person did not play by the rules for selection criteria,” the skipper added.“He told my father while I had the merit, a little extra (bribe) was needed to confirm my selection.”But Kohli said his father had insisted the selection had to be on merit alone.“My father simply said, ‘If you want to select Virat then let it be purely on merit. I will give you nothing extra.'”Kohli said he was in tears after being told he had not made the team. “I cried a lot. I was broken,” he declared.“That incident taught me a lot. I realised that this is how the world is run,” he was quoted as saying.“If you want to progress, do something that no one else is doing. If I had to become successful, I needed to be extraordinary.“And I had to achieve this purely through my own effort and hard work.“My father showed me the right way through his actions and not merely words. Those little things had a great impact on me,” Kohli was quoted as saying.Kohli’s father, a lawyer, died when he was 18 and playing in a Ranji Trophy state match for Delhi. He returned to bat the day after his father’s death.“I accepted his death as I was focused on moving forward with my career,” Kohli said.“His death made me realise I had to make something of my life. Now I think about how nice it would be if I could have given my father the peaceful retired life he deserved. At times I get emotional thinking about him.”"
Web Desk,"Curtailed French season could have been completed in August, UEFA letter reveals",2020-05-19,"PARIS: An August 3 deadline to complete the suspended football season was only a recommendation and “not official”, according to a letter written by UEFA president Aleksander Ceferin amid an ongoing row over the decision to call a premature end to the campaign in France.In a letter sent to the Lyon president Jean-Michel Aulas on May 14 — revealed by French daily Le Parisien and of which AFP has obtained a copy — Ceferin explains that European football’s governing body had indeed discussed setting an August 3 deadline for countries to finish their domestic leagues.August 3 was cited as the latest date for the top 15 European leagues, including France, to finish seasons which ground to a halt in mid-March because of the coronavirus pandemic. The date for lower-ranked competitions was July 20.“However, we always mentioned during those meetings that these dates were recommended and tentative, not official,” Ceferin wrote.Referring to a UEFA meeting on April 23 setting out a way forward for suspended leagues, the head of European football’s governing body emphasised that the aim was to play on wherever possible.“UEFA’s recommendation was … clearly to encourage the national associations and leagues to do their utmost to finish the ongoing domestic championships, either in the original format or an adapted format, if necessary,” he wrote.However, the French league (LFP) called an end to its season on April 30 with 10 rounds of matches left unplayed.DISCONTENTThat was after the French government said that the season “cannot restart” and that large gatherings would remain banned until September.Paris Saint-Germain were declared champions but Lyon were one of several clubs left deeply unhappy with the decision which denied them European qualification for next season.Aulas has been outspoken in his rejection of what he saw as a hasty decision, insisting that a way could have been found to finish the season in August before the next campaign begins.Meanwhile, Amiens have launched legal action against the league’s decision which condemned them to relegation from Ligue 1.Aulas has claimed that the LFP based their decision around the deadline put forward by UEFA.The date of August 3 was indeed mentioned in the minutes of the LFP’s meeting as “an obstacle to the 2019-20 Ligue 1 season restarting when it will be possible to organise matches again”.The LFP has nevertheless insisted that its decision was legally “solid” and “definitive”.France is the biggest European league so far to declare the season over, although the Belgian and Scottish leagues have since followed the same lead, while the Dutch season was voided with no champion named.In contrast, the German Bundesliga became the biggest league on the continent to restart at the weekend, amid strict heath protocols and with matches being played behind closed doors."
Web Desk,British government eyes mid-June Premier League return,2020-05-18,"LONDON: Britain’s Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden is hopeful the Premier League can resume by mid-June despite concerns raised by players and coaches over the need for an extended period of training before matches restart.Premier League clubs are meeting on Monday to sign off on protocols that will allow a return to training this week, whilst maintaining social distancing guidelines.The last top-flight match in England was on March 9 and Newcastle manager Steve Bruce said on Sunday his players could “fall down like a pack of cards” with injuries if matches return before the end of June.England international Raheem Sterling also expressed his concern at a quick turnaround between a resumption of training and playing matches.The Premier League have reportedly been aiming for a return on June 12.Dowden insisted public safety remained the priority, but is also hoping a restart is only around a month away.“I had some very constructive discussions on Thursday with the FA, the EFL (English Football League) and the Premier League,” Dowden told Sky News on Monday.“We are working hard with them to try and get it back, aiming for mid-June, but the number one test is public safety.“They, like a lot of other sports we’re looking at returning behind closed doors, have met with Public Health England several times to look at the safety.“If we can sort that out then we will look to resume by mid-June. We’re making good progress.”British Prime Minister Boris Johnson told parliament last week that the return of sport on TV would “provide a much-needed boost to national morale”.The resumption of Germany’s Bundesliga over the weekend has raised expectations that the Premier League can follow suit despite the drastically different scale of the health crisis in both countries.In the UK, the government’s official rolling tally of fatalities is nearing 35,000 compared to just under 8,000 in Germany.Nevertheless, the Bundesliga is proving a test case for the Premier League’s ‘Project Restart’.English clubs who resisted a proposal for the remaining 92 matches of the campaign to be played at neutral venues will have been heartened that there were no significant problems with supporters turning up near stadiums in Germany for the restart.If the protocols are passed in Monday’s meeting, Premier League players can return to non-contact training later in the week.However, former Chelsea doctor Eva Carneiro warned of the risks being taken with players’ health without yet knowing the consequences COVID-19 could have on athletes.“We simply do not know how the virus affects athletes,” said Dr. Carneiro.“From my experience, football does not have a culture of embracing and observing medical governance which, now more than ever, is required to ensure compliance.“Not only in the short-term, but in the medium and long term, when fatigue with the new protocols sets in.”"
Web Desk,Babar Azam praying pandemic won’t sink World Cup,2020-05-18,"LAHORE: World number one Twenty20 batsman Babar Azam said on Monday that he was praying the coronavirus pandemic would not scupper his first T20 World Cup as skipper.Australia are due to host the seventh Twenty20 World Cup in October and November but organisers face challenges of providing appropriate bio-security and quarantine measures for 15 international teams.Lingering travel restrictions could also hit the event, where 45 matches are scheduled to be played in seven cities.“It will be my first World Cup as skipper so I am praying for it and keeping fingers crossed,” Azam said in a virtual press conference.The International Cricket Council (ICC) will discuss the event at its board meeting in Dubai next week. Azam said he would not mind if cricket was played in closed stadiums, without fans.“It would be tough to play without fans because they cheer along and back you up, but who knows better than [us] how to play without crowds,” said Azam.Pakistan was forced to play before sparse or no crowds in the United Arab Emirates in the aftermath of the 2009 attack against a visiting Sri Lanka team in Lahore.International cricket returned gradually from 2015 but it was only last year that the country managed to stage a Test at home after a gap of ten years.The one-day international captain also vowed to improve Pakistan’s rankings.“We are now fourth in Twenty20, sixth in ODIs and seventh in Tests which is not acceptable and I want to see improvements in that,” Azam said.Pakistan topped the Twenty20 rankings from January 2018 to until last week.Azam said he was keeping his ‘fingers crossed’ that this year’s Twenty20 World Cup would go ahead in AustraliaMeanwhile, batting great Younis Khan has said that a fair comparison between star batsman Babar Azam and India skipper Virat Kohli could only be possible in five years’ time after the former is at the peak of his career, according to Gulf News.Younis reasoned that Kohli’s career numbers are far intimidating as he is an established superstar and has experience across all formats, not to mention the fact that he has already “proved himself”.“You see, Kohli – who is now 31 and at the peak of his career – has been in international cricket for over a decade now and has proved himself in all conditions. The 70 international centuries that he has scored is a testimony to his class and abilities,” the former Pakistan captain said.Younis said that Azam has only just begun to show his potential and will need more time to reach his peak.“Babar Azam made his international debut barely five years back. He already has 16 centuries under his belt and shows very good averages in both Tests and ODIs,” Younis said.He further said that a comparison of the two would be premature but could be possible five years from now.“It will be unfair to start comparing the two right now. If you have to, compare Azam five years,” he said."
Web Desk,Spanish clubs begin group training as La Liga eyes June restart,2020-05-18,"BARCELONA: Spanish clubs began training in groups of 10 players on Monday, in line with health protocols, as La Liga takes another step towards the planned resumption of the coronavirus-hit season next month.Barcelona confirmed that their squad was back on the training ground at 9:30am (0730 GMT), with pictures published on their Twitter account showing several players including Gerard Pique and Sergio Busquets taking part in the session.Real Madrid players also trained at the club’s base on the outskirts of the Spanish capital, as clubs begin the last step towards being able to work with their full squads together.Spanish government protocol allows training sessions to be expanded by all clubs, even those belonging to areas that are further behind in the country’s programme of de-escalation from a strict lockdown.That means teams like Real, Barcelona and Aletico Madrid are able to train in groups of 10, despite both Madrid and Catalonia remaining in ‘phase 0’ as two of Spain’s worst-hit regions.Spain has been one of the world’s hardest-hit countries by COVID-19 with a total of 27,650 reported deaths as of Sunday, and more than 231,000 confirmed cases.“It is a ministerial decision. It was very important that all teams could train in the same way,” said Javier Tebas, the president of La Liga, on Sunday.Tebas reiterated La Liga’s desire to finish the remaining 11 rounds of matches in a season that has been suspended since mid-March.He has circled June 12 as the ideal date for matches to return but admitted the exact timing will depend on the health authorities in Spain and the trajectory of the virus.“We are working so that (the return of La Liga) will take place from June 11-12, but we are working to be ready regardless of the date,” Tebas told Movistar TV.“It is the health authorities who will say when we start.“I would like it to happen as soon as possible, but the truth is that we do not have an ideal date. We have to wait for the green light from the health authorities.”According to an official statement by the government on Saturday, professional sports clubs “may carry out complete training sessions” while “complying with the corresponding prevention and hygiene measures”.The statement put the maximum number at 14 for group training but La Liga informed clubs the limit would be 10 on Monday.Tebas has estimated that failing to complete the season would cost clubs around 1 billion euros ($1.08 billion)."
Web Desk,Singapore F1 can’t be held behind closed doors: organisers,2020-05-18,"SINGAPORE: Singapore F1 organisers Monday said it was “not feasible” to hold the race behind closed doors, threatening further problems for the coronavirus-ravaged season.After 10 races were cancelled or postponed, Formula One bosses are aiming to begin the season with two races in Austria in July, both without fans. Races in other countries are also expected to go ahead in closed venues.But the Singapore Grand Prix, scheduled for September, is a nighttime street race around the city-state’s waterfront, where it would be challenging to keep spectators away.Organisers said they have been in talks with Formula One, the Singapore government and others involved “to assess different possibilities” for holding the race.But a spokesperson added that “as the Singapore F1 race is a street circuit, it is not feasible to conduct the race behind closed doors”.Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel won last year’s race, which drew 268,000 spectators over three days, a substantial portion of them coming from overseas.Work on the street circuit, which requires “considerable temporary infrastructure”, typically takes three months, organisers said.“We will continue to keep a close watch on developments. Our utmost priority remains the wellbeing and safety of our fans, staff, volunteers, and all Singaporeans,” the spokesperson said.Like many other countries, Singapore has ordered the closure of most businesses, advised people to stay at home, and banned large gatherings as it battles a virus outbreak.The tiny Southeast Asian country has reported more than 28,000 infections, most of them among foreign workers living in crowded dormitories.Officials say they may start relaxing some of the curbs from early June."
Web Desk,Wallaby Rodda in trio suspended for refusing Super Rugby pay cut,2020-05-18,"TOKYO: Wallabies forward Izack Rodda and two Queensland Reds teammates who refused to take a pay cut negotiated during the coronavirus shutdown were suspended as the team resumed training Monday. The 21-cap Australia Test second-row Rodda, Isaac Lucas and Harry Hockings rejected a deal that sees the country’s professional rugby union players take a 60 percent pay cut over six months to help the game avoid insolvency.The agreement, which covers 192 players, was reached after three weeks of discussions between Rugby Australia, the country’s four Super Rugby teams and the Rugby Union Players Association.Minimum earnings were set at Aus$1,500 ($958) a fortnight — the same as Australia’s emergency government entitlements.Queensland Rugby Union (QRU) said the trio were suspended after their agent notified the state governing body of their stance.“We understand this situation is difficult for everyone and individual decisions need to be made to protect the long-term viability of Rugby in Queensland,” QRU chief executive David Hanham said.“As we have outlined before, these conditions are necessary at present and allow the QRU to create a financial bridge to the other side of this pandemic.”Rugby Australia director of rugby Scott Johnson said it was “an unfortunate situation” given an agreement had already been reached while the game navigates the COVID-19 situation.“We want the players to remain in Australia and honor their contracts with the Reds and Rugby Australia,” he said.“We are aware they are looking at their legal position, but we hope this can be resolved with the players as soon as possible and we will keep an open dialogue with them.”The game has been shut down in Australia since March because of the coronavirus pandemic, but plans have been drawn up to restart domestic play early in July as restrictions ease.Players were returning to training on Monday for the first time in two months.As well as slashing player salaries, Rugby Australia put 75 percent of staff on unpaid leave after warning it could lose Aus$120 million in revenue if the rest of the season was lost."
Web Desk,IPL 2020 could be staged if T20 World Cup is postponed: Mark Taylor,2020-05-17,"MELBOURNE: Australia’s former cricketer Mark Taylor has said that the possible postponement of the T20 World Cup could make room for the money-spinning Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020, Channel Nine Sports reported.Taylor reasoned that the logistical hurdles caused by the coronavirus pandemic could cause the International Cricket Council (ICC) to call off the 15-team tournament.Therefore, this would grant the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) the desired window to host the lucrative T20 tournament as travel would be upon players rather than the boards.“I think that’s the most likely scenario (postponement of T20 World Cup) because 15 teams planning to come to Australia between October and November as national travel is going to extremely difficult in the world we are living in,” Taylor said.“14 days isolation before that makes it even harder. More than likely that event is not going ahead. So if the ICC decides to postpone the event that will open the door for the BCCI to have the IPL 2020 which actually puts the onus back on individuals then rather than nations.”"
Web Desk,Bayern aim to shake off cobwebs with quiet confidence in Berlin,2020-05-17,"BERLIN: Bayern Munich restart their charge for an eighth straight Bundesliga title at Union Berlin on Sunday amid doubts the Bavarian giants will be able to last the distance after a two-month hiatus.Hansi Flick’s side hold a one-point lead at the top of the league heading into their trip to the German capital, which has been the scene of some impressive upsets thanks to promoted Union’s form at their Alten Foersterei stadium.Union have twice shocked the league leaders this season, beating Borussia Dortmund 3-1 in August and turning out 2-0 victors over Borussia Moenchengladbach three months later.Now it’s Bayern’s turn.Flick is unsure of his team’s ability to play out a full match of professional football after having only received the go-ahead to resume full team training last week.“We don’t know if the team can hold out over 90 minutes,” said Flick. “We have trained well and played three matches of 20 minutes each last Sunday.“They were played at a very high intensity, but we don’t know clearly where we stand.“We have to just deal with the situation.”The Bundesliga is the first major league in Europe to return to action since the coronavirus brought football to a halt two months ago and has only come back with a host of strict health regulations, chief among them empty stands in what are usually passion-filled stadiums.That means Union won’t be able to count on their ferocious home support at their ground on the eastern outskirts of the German capital.They will also be without their coach Urs Fischer after breaking the team quarantine following the death of his father-in-law.“It’s not possible to surprise Bayern with the experience their players have,” said assistant coach Markus Hoffmann, who will take charge of Union for the Bayern match.“They’ve already experienced everything.“We have to concentrate on ourselves and try to implement what we can to influence the game in the best possible way.”VERY, VERY STRANGEBayern’s lead was cut to a single point by Borussia Dortmund, who on Saturday showed no ring rustiness in a 4-0 demolition of Ruhr rivals Schalke.Young gun Erling Braut Haaland was again the headline act, scoring the first Bundesliga goal after the restart and setting up Raphael Guerreiro for the first of his brace.In one of a series of odd scenes that peppered the first day back, Dortmund’s players jogged over to applaud an empty ‘Sudtribune’, which would for a normal derby would be jammed with 25,000 delirous fans hailing a huge victory that keeps pressure on their title rivals.“There was no noise. You shoot at the goal, make a top pass, score a goal, and nothing happens,” said Dortmund coach Lucien Favre.“That’s very, very strange. We really missed our fans.”As well as the echoing arenas, a host of other rules have been put in place to try to stop the spread of the virus, from frequent testing to masks for players on the subs bench and a week-long quarantine for teams ahead of the restart.However, advice to socially distance didn’t stop Hertha Berlin players from celebrating their goals in a 3-0 win at Hoffenheim by hugging each other.“The fact is that this is part of football,” said Hertha coach Bruno Labbadia. “We’ve been tested so many times that we can allow it.“If you can’t celebrate anymore, the whole thing breaks down.”A German Football League (DFL) spokesman confirmed there will be no punishment, as it had only offered “guidelines” on how goals should be celebrated.The DFL has also made no secret of the fact that several clubs are in a dire financial situation as a result of the lockdown.If they are able to complete the nine remaining rounds of matches by June 30, clubs could receive around 300 million euros ($324 million) from television contracts.Clubs in England, Spain and Italy, where leagues are weeks away from returning, will be watching to see how the rest of weekend goes."
Web Desk,Player divide threatens Premier League’s restart plan,2020-05-16,"LONDON: The Premier League’s bid to restart the season in June is in danger of being derailed by a heated debate between players about the risks of playing amid the coronavirus crisis. While Premier League chiefs believe completing the campaign is essential to safeguard the financial and sporting future of the game, some stars are not so convinced.AFP Sport looks at both sides of the row:“I’m not going to put my family at risk”Watford captain Troy Deeney has been one of the loudest voices against returning to the pitch so soon.Although the Premier League has agreed to fund regular testing for players and staff, there is no guarantee of keeping the virus at bay while vaccine trials remain in the early stages.Adding to Deeney’s concern, black and ethnic minorities are statistically more at risk of dying from the virus, leaving him adamant he will not gamble with his family’s life just to satisfy the desire for football to resume.“I’m not even talking about football at the moment. I’m talking about my family’s health,” Deeney said on Instagram.“I’m not going to put my family at risk. What are they going to do, take money off me? I’ve been broke before so it doesn’t bother me.“They’re talking about not playing in front of fans until 2021. So if it’s not safe enough for fans to be inside a stadium, why should it be safe for players to be in there?”Critics of Deeney’s view have noted that Watford were just outside the relegation zone on goal difference when the season was halted, so his club would clearly benefit from the season being abandoned.But Manchester City stars Sergio Aguero and Raheem Sterling have also raised concerns about restarting, while Newcastle’s Danny Rose, on loan from Tottenham, launched a furious rant about the situation. “Government is saying ‘bring football back’ because it is going to boost the nation’s morale. I don’t care about the nation’s morale, bro, people’s lives are at risk,” he said.“Football shouldn’t even be spoke about coming back until the numbers have dropped massively.”Like Deeney and other Premier League skippers, Norwich captain Grant Hanley took part in a conference call with the Premier League this week that reportedly saw numerous disagreements.“I think the overall feeling is that players have got concerns. There’s just so much uncertainty,” Hanley told Sky Sports.“Every team and player has got different views on it. Ultimately it’s putting your family at risk that is the main concern.”“Looking forward to playing again”In contrast to the anger expressed by some of his peers, England captain Harry Kane has preached a more moderate attitude.Tottenham striker Kane is ready to restart as long as player safety is the highest priority. “I think the majority of players are looking forward to playing again as soon as possible but we know we want it to be as safe as possible too,” Kane told British daytime TV show, Good Morning Britain.“Me personally, I am happy to start training in small groups if that is allowed and just trying to get back to some normality as soon as possible. I guess everyone is different and has their own personal view.”Even those willing to play, like Chelsea striker Tammy Abraham, have given their support with caveats.Abraham’s father has asthma and the England international does not want to put him in danger.“To go out on the pitch is a big thing for me. But my dad is asthmatic and the last thing I need is to catch the virus myself or be in contact with anyone with the virus,” Abraham said.“The Premier League and the Government have to come to a decision on whether or not it’s safe enough to play again and we take it on from there. I am ready to play tomorrow if it is safe.”Encapsulating the split in the ranks, former Manchester City midfielder Joey Barton claimed Deeney is acting out of self-interest.Barton, who is manager of League One side Fleetwood, tweeted: “If Troy doesn’t want to play or doesn’t feel safe enough to, then that’s his choice.“Let’s not kid ourselves about what is going on. Big money to be had in the Premier League, who wouldn’t want another year of that towards the end of your career? Got to admire the opportunism.“Squad on huge bonus for survival. No wonder they want it null and voided.”"
Web Desk,Ramiz wants incentives for players at domestic level,2020-05-16,"ISLAMABAD: Former captain Ramiz Raja believes that Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) will have to streamline first class cricket by offering incentive to the players.“The entire talent comes from there [domestic level] to represent the country.There is a need to introduce a system of providing incentives to players at that lower tier too. If the talent will not come from there, then the entire work will be stopped,” he said on his YouTube channel ‘RamizSpeaks’ while commenting on central contracts given to players by PCB.“Announcing central contracts is a good move because it motivates players but I believe there is a need for such more incentives.”He said although youngsters like Naseem Shah, Haider Ali and Mohammad Hasnain were given central contracts, some more young guns should have also been included in the list. “This gives hope to players and creates passion among them. This also provides them a sense of security.”He said that there was a need to form categories at the domestic level and give them incentives. “You’ll have to streamline your first class and under 19 cricket through bounces as this is the tribune from where you get talent for the national level,” he added.Ramiz said he had also some observations on the centrally contracted players stating, “In category B there are nine players but our of these six players play in only one format and that is Test cricket.And in Test cricket ranking we are at number seven, whereas in T20 our ranking has remained at the top for the past several years, and only recently it has been dropped to number four.“But the T20 players have not been given much incentives. I’m unable to understand as why they [the T20 players] have not been treated and given weight-age, which the Test players have been given.It is very important to provide incentives to the players who kept you at the top,” he maintained."
Web Desk,Pakistan set to tour England this summer: Report,2020-05-16,"LAHORE: The PCB is “very optimistic” about the operational plans being put into place for this summer’s tour of England by Pakistan and has reached an agreement in principle after ECB assurances, as elite-level cricket plots a re-start after months of worldwide lockdown.The two boards held a meeting on Friday in which the ECB talked the PCB through plans for keeping players in a bio-secure environment, from the moment they land in the country through the three Tests and three T20s they are scheduled to play. Working plans include flying the Pakistan squad into the UK on a chartered flight in early July and allocating them one venue as a base, where they can not only carry out their training and intra-squad practice games but also spend the mandatory two-week quarantine period put in place by the UK government for all visitors from outside the country.That venue, with a hotel in near proximity, is yet to be confirmed, and would be separate from the two venues the series of six international matches is to be played in. The Tests are currently scheduled to begin early August, once Pakistan have undergone the quarantine and put in a few weeks’ worth of practice and training.“We were presented with a lot of the planning and detail that the ECB are putting into place for this summer, especially on the operational side, right from the plane for travel to the bio-secure venues we will play in,” Wasim Khan, the PCB chief executive, told ESPNcricinfo. “It was very, very encouraging from that point of view and the PCB is very optimistic about the plans in place.”The tour going ahead will still depend on a number of factors, foremost among them how the UK continues to move slowly and gradually out of the lockdown imposed in the country since late March. The UK has been among the worst-hit countries in the world by the coronavirus pandemic, although it is accepted now that it has passed the peak of the epidemic.Earlier this week, a few restrictions – such as on outdoor exercise and the return of some people to work – were lifted and the government also put out guidelines for the return of professional sport as part of a two-stage plan. England players are expected to return to individual skills-based exercises next week, with the second stage – which will allow ‘social clustering’ among training groups – to be governed by safety assessments from Public Health England.Pakistan are also fortunate in that they are the second visitors this summer, and so will be able to observe how well the ECB’s plans are executed if West Indies agree to go ahead with their rescheduled tour.And not least, it will come down to how Pakistan’s players feel about travelling to England. “We’re going to be speaking to the players this coming week and update them on the ECB’s plans,” Khan said. “We’re not going to force any player to tour if they don’t feel comfortable.”The PCB is also planning to draw out a plan for its players to return to training this week, as the country loosens its own lockdown. Infections are still on the rise in Pakistan according to most data but the Imran Khan-led government has argued that the country’s economic circumstances do not allow it to maintain a strict lockdown indefinitely. The option to reinforce stricter lockdowns, nation-wide or in more targeted fashion, remains open, however.“We are still in an evolving situation, where things could change and we have to work with government guidelines across the board,” Khan said. “But the next 12 months are critical for cricket around the world and it’s important that we show solidarity at this moment in time, and that we stick together through this period.”"
Web Desk,Athletics chief says sport could rebel against pandemic rules,2020-05-16,"PARIS: World athletics chief Sebastian Coe has warned that sports leaders may rebel against pandemic restrictions as they struggle to get major events back on track. Coe expressed the frustrations felt by many sports chiefs when he said it was crucial to get top events started again even as the coronavirus takes a mounting toll around the world.“We have to be guided by what governments, the WHO and local authorities are telling us, but we also have to make our own decisions and make sensible compromises,” Coe, 63, told Indian television channel WION.“There may be a moment when a sport decides that it is ready to stage events even if it is not always with the approval of those authorities.“We will be respectful, but we have to make decisions in the best interest of our sport and our athletes,” the British former track legend insisted.Athletics like other key sports has seen its calendar and finances badly hit by the postponement of this year’s Olympic Games in Tokyo.The world athletics championships planned for 2021 have had to be pushed back by a year to allow for a provisional plan to stage the Tokyo Games next year instead.Coe said no one could give a cast-iron assurance that the Olympics will be held.“Speculating about something that is over a year away is unhelpful,” said the former chief of the 2012 London Olympics.“We are trying to give the athletes some clarity about the calendar and speculation from scientists and medical experts does not help.“I hope that the pandemic will be contained so that we don’t have to cancel the Games.”Athletics’ Diamond League may only start in August and finish in October. Coe said competitions will look very different with athletes battling each other in empty stadiums.“Meeting directors will have to take their own decisions about how to get athletes to competition in a safe and secure manner that doesn’t risk infection,” he said.“Each event will have to decide on a format for competition with these safety considerations two months in advance.“Everybody is waiting to return to competition and organisers will have to be as creative and ingenious as possible in the current circumstances.”In a separate interview with Indian media, Coe said there would be greater use of technology to make events “more exciting” for television viewers and to adapt to the coronavirus threat.“If you think of relay, the baton exchange could be another source of infection, but we are finding ways to organise it,” the World Athletics chief said.“As a runner, I can feel the emotions of the athletes if there are only trainings and no competition. Therefore we want to provide them with an opportunity to compete and perform.”"
Web Desk,Afridi contributes to Mushfiqur Rahim’s coronavirus relief efforts in Bangladesh,2020-05-16,"Pakistani cricketer Shahid Afridi has made a contribution to COVID-19 relief efforts in Bangladesh by buying a cricket bat put up on auction by Bangladeshi batter Mushfiqur Rahim for $20,000.The news was announced by Rahim on his Facebook page on Saturday. “Shahid Afridi has bought the bat on behalf of his charity organisation,” he wrote.“I feel privileged and honoured that someone like him has joined our great cause,” he added.In this regard, Afridi said Mushfiq was “doing wonderful work” for his people.“Only real heroes undertake such efforts! We’re all experiencing tough times, in which we need each other. I’ll always remember the love I received from Bangladesh.“Buying your cricket bat on behalf of the Pakistani people, I wish to become a part of your journey.“We will rid the world of this disease very soon and we shall meet in the cricket ground,” the Pakistani player said.The auctioned bat was used by Rahim during his memorable innings of 200 against Sri Lanka in the Galle Test of 2013.According to Dhaka-based newspaper New Age, the auction was jointly operated by Mushfiqur Rahim’s management partner NIBCO, Sports for Life, and Pickaboo.com.“We have received an email in official letterhead from Shahid Afridi Foundation. They confirmed that they will be buying the bat for $20,000,” an official said.“The proceeds from this venture will go to a fund, through which the organisation is disbursing Tk1,500 cash incentives per family in this pandemic situation.”"
Web Desk,Lewandowski ‘fitter than ever’ for Bundesliga restart,2020-05-16,"LONDON: Bayern Munich striker Robert Lewandowski says he is fitter than ever ahead of Sunday’s Bundesliga clash at FC Union Berlin and taking advice from World Cup record-holder Miroslav Klose. The 41-year-old Klose, who holds the record of 16 goals scored at World Cup finals, has joined Bayern’s staff and will be next to head coach Hansi Flick on the bench on Sunday.Lewandowski, 31, is enjoying the best season of his career, netting 25 goals in 23 league games and on course to better his 30-goal haul in both 2015/16 and 2016/17.The league’s top-scorer has used the time since the Bundesliga halted in mid-March, to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, to improve his fitness.“I feel better than ever before because I was able to work hard on my physical fitness for the last two months,” said Lewandowski, who underwent groin surgery in December.The Bundesliga will become the first top European league to return this weekend during the pandemic with games behind closed doors.Bayern head to Berlin with a four-point lead at the top of the table.Mid-table Union have beaten previous league leaders Dortmund and Moenchengladbach this season, but the terraces at their compact east Berlin stadium will this time be empty.Poland captain Lewandowski sent records tumbling by scoring in each of the first 11 league games this season.He is now learning from ex-Germany striker Klose, who scored 53 goals in 150 games for Bayern during his career and last week signed a year-long contract to join the coaching staff.“He was a great player and I know that he can help us with his experience and skills,” added Lewandowski.“You can learn something new from any coach to become a better player.”Union’s Swiss coach Urs Fischer will not be in charge of the hosts for Sunday’s game having broken the team’s quarantine following a family bereavement.Nevertheless, Bayern head coach Hansi Flick expects a tough match in Berlin.“They’re a team with a great mentality. We will face an aggressive team that takes the direct route to goal,” Flick said of Union.“We need to stand up and be counted. We can’t get a result just through the quality of our football.“We have to show our mentality and take on challenges.”Flick has plenty of selection options with only Philippe Coutinho, Corentin Tolisso and Niklas Suele still sidelined by long-term injuries.The Bayern boss admitted he is unsure whether the squad has the match fitness for the 90 minutes.“We had an internal friendly with three 20-minutes games on Sunday. The intensity was very high,” he said.“But we don’t know whether the whole squad will be able to hold out over 90 minutes.”Due to the German league’s hygiene guidelines, players on the Bayern bench will wear protective masks, while those on the pitch have been told to avoid handshakes or celebration hugs.Flick said his stars are briefed on what to expect.“Not much will change except for the wearing of masks in the dressing room,” he said.“We discussed with the players what they can expect.“More than 200 countries will be watching, we have an enormously large audience so we want to deliver a top performance.”"
Web Desk,"Umar Akmal, Pakistan cricket’s enfant terrible, faces reckoning",2020-05-13,"by Agencies , (Last Updated May 13, 2020)LAHORE: If ever a soap opera were to be made about Pakistan cricket, Umar Akmal might be a good candidate for the role of enfant terrible.The talented-yet-wayward batsman is scrambling to save his once-promising career, after he was hit with a three-year ban for failing to report match-fixing offers.Umar is expected to learn the fate of an appeal to last month’s disciplinary action on or about May 26, which also happens to be his 30th birthday.Right now, the signs don’t look good.Umar declined to speak to AFP for this story, but several experts suggested Pakistan’s close-knit cricketing world is fed up.“Umar is not prepared to show remorse and seek apology,” the judgement accompanying Umar’s ban states.Ramiz Raja, a former Pakistan captain and a well-known cricket analyst, said he was “pained to see such a talent go waste”.“Cricket cannot condone such behaviour and fans need to realise that rooting for tainted players is actually harming Pakistan cricket and its image,” Raja told AFP.Umar’s Test career exploded into life with a century in his 2009 debut in New Zealand, a feat that prompted commentators to describe him a “future star”.But his expanding profile was soon tempered with disciplinary problems. His two brothers –- Kamran and Adnan -– also played for Pakistan but never got into hot water.Within months of his first international outing, Umar reportedly feigned an injury in a bid to skip a Test in Australia, in protest over Kamran being dropped.He was fined and placed on a six-month probation.Even the astute Misbah-ul-Haq — Pakistan’s most successful Test captain — could not rein in Umar.Following an irresponsible shot in a 2011 Test in Zimbabwe, he never again selected Umar for the longer format.The following year, he was fined and reprimanded for an altercation with umpires during the Twenty20 World Cup in Sri Lanka.He ran into trouble off the field too. In 2014, he was arrested in his native Lahore over a scuffle with a traffic warden.He has repeatedly grabbed headlines for partying late into the night, ending in yet more fines and reprimands.ONLY HIMSELF TO BLAMEA dozen captains and coaches tried to keep Umar on track, but without luck.Waqar Younis had two coaching stints from 2010 to 2016, and ended up recommending an undisciplined “Umar be kept away from the national team for some time”.After Waqar, coach Mickey Arthur, of South Africa, had several run-ins with Umar.In 2017 Arthur sent him home days before the start of the Champions Trophy after he failed a fitness test.Later that year he received a three-month ban after a spat with Arthur in the national cricket academy in Lahore.Arthur, now head coach of Sri Lanka, said he wasn’t surprised by Umar’s recent problems.“I feel nothing for guys who waste their talent like he has… he should be the disappointed one!” Arthur told AFP in a WhatsApp message.“He will only have himself to blame and should have taken responsibility for his career instead of always looking to make excuses and blame others.”Despite promises, Umar did not change.“I want to ask forgiveness of all fans who have been hurt by my conduct,” Umar said in 2017.“I am ready to commit to cricket. I still have a lot of cricket left in me and I aim to make another international comeback.”But it seems he has now run out of chances."
Web Desk,"With little competition, the Bundesliga goes global",2020-05-13,"BERLIN: German football will find itself in an unaccustomed global spotlight this weekend as audiences starved of live football turn to the only major European league back in action.With the Premier League, Spain’s La Liga and Serie A in Italy all still sidelined by the coronavirus pandemic, the Bundesliga will take centre stage on Saturday.Even in Brazil, media coverage has switched from domestic football stories to what TV viewers can expect to see when Borussia Dortmund meet Schalke in the biggest match of the opening day, albeit it without spectators in the stadium.Cable channel Fox Sports, which holds exclusive rights to show the Bundesliga in Brazil, will be showing the Ruhr Derby at 9:30 am local time. Its website already features a lengthy article about the games entitled “The wait will soon be over”.Even Brazil’s biggest media group, Globo, is getting in on the act with interviews with four Brazilians who play for Bundesliga clubs, including Wolfsburg midfielder William, who admitted players were “a little bit scared” about the implications for their health.In India, foreign football leagues have found a market in India’s urban youth who keenly follow the Premier League and support clubs like Chelsea, Liverpool and Manchester United. But a few of these fans also watch La Liga and Bundesliga.“I am desperately waiting for the Bundesliga to start this weekend. I am thirsty for live football action in this lockdown,” Amjad Rehan Ibrahim, a student of Delhi University, told AFP.A BAROMETERIndian international forward Jeje Lalpekhlua said he would also be tuning in to the coverage on Indian broadcasters Star Sports and Hotstar: “It’s difficult without football for so long. I am surely going to watch it.”In Japan, rightsholder Sky Perfect is going to show two Bundesliga matches this weekend free of charge.In Europe too, the matches in Germany will provide a much-needed fix of live sport.Adolfo Barbero, who commentates on Bundesliga games for the Spanish channel Movistar+, said: “I can assure you that I haven’t seen this level of interest in the Bundesliga in 20 years. Normally people support Bayern Munich, Dortmund or even Bayer Leverkusen and that’s it.“But now they are also looking forward to seeing Fortuna Duesseldorf and Paderborn. It’s crazy.”In Mexico, football journalists are grateful for something to cover — and the sorely-missed revenue live sport generates.“For those of us who make a living from football the fact there hasn’t been any activity really affects us. A weekend without football is really difficult,” said Emilio Fernando Alonso, a Mexican reporter for ESPN.In China, where the Super League might not begin until June, German football’s meticulously planned return is being closely watched.Writing in the Oriental Sports Daily, columnist Ji Yuyang said the biggest challenge for the Bundesliga was not restarting during the pandemic, but being able to outlast it because of financial pressures that clubs were facing due to the health crisis.“Half of the teams in the top two leagues are in danger of going bankrupt, according to estimates in Germany,” Ji wrote.“So for many German clubs, whether it was better to wait for failure or risk restarting, they chose the latter.”The quarantine and social distancing measures that Bundesliga clubs have instituted are also being scrutinised in Italy and Spain, whose leagues are some way from being able to consider resuming.“It will be a barometer, the reference point for all the others… if it all goes well it will be a great success and if there’s a big problem it will have a similarly powerful negative effect,” Movistar+ commentator Barbero said."
Web Desk,"With little competition, the Bundesliga goes global",2020-05-13,"BERLIN: German football will find itself in an unaccustomed global spotlight this weekend as audiences starved of live football turn to the only major European league back in action.With the Premier League, Spain’s La Liga and Serie A in Italy all still sidelined by the coronavirus pandemic, the Bundesliga will take centre stage on Saturday.Even in Brazil, media coverage has switched from domestic football stories to what TV viewers can expect to see when Borussia Dortmund meet Schalke in the biggest match of the opening day, albeit it without spectators in the stadium.Cable channel Fox Sports, which holds exclusive rights to show the Bundesliga in Brazil, will be showing the Ruhr Derby at 9:30 am local time. Its website already features a lengthy article about the games entitled “The wait will soon be over”.Even Brazil’s biggest media group, Globo, is getting in on the act with interviews with four Brazilians who play for Bundesliga clubs, including Wolfsburg midfielder William, who admitted players were “a little bit scared” about the implications for their health.In India, foreign football leagues have found a market in India’s urban youth who keenly follow the Premier League and support clubs like Chelsea, Liverpool and Manchester United. But a few of these fans also watch La Liga and Bundesliga.“I am desperately waiting for the Bundesliga to start this weekend. I am thirsty for live football action in this lockdown,” Amjad Rehan Ibrahim, a student of Delhi University, told AFP.A BAROMETERIndian international forward Jeje Lalpekhlua said he would also be tuning in to the coverage on Indian broadcasters Star Sports and Hotstar: “It’s difficult without football for so long. I am surely going to watch it.”In Japan, rightsholder Sky Perfect is going to show two Bundesliga matches this weekend free of charge.In Europe too, the matches in Germany will provide a much-needed fix of live sport.Adolfo Barbero, who commentates on Bundesliga games for the Spanish channel Movistar+, said: “I can assure you that I haven’t seen this level of interest in the Bundesliga in 20 years. Normally people support Bayern Munich, Dortmund or even Bayer Leverkusen and that’s it.“But now they are also looking forward to seeing Fortuna Duesseldorf and Paderborn. It’s crazy.”In Mexico, football journalists are grateful for something to cover — and the sorely-missed revenue live sport generates.“For those of us who make a living from football the fact there hasn’t been any activity really affects us. A weekend without football is really difficult,” said Emilio Fernando Alonso, a Mexican reporter for ESPN.In China, where the Super League might not begin until June, German football’s meticulously planned return is being closely watched.Writing in the Oriental Sports Daily, columnist Ji Yuyang said the biggest challenge for the Bundesliga was not restarting during the pandemic, but being able to outlast it because of financial pressures that clubs were facing due to the health crisis.“Half of the teams in the top two leagues are in danger of going bankrupt, according to estimates in Germany,” Ji wrote.“So for many German clubs, whether it was better to wait for failure or risk restarting, they chose the latter.”The quarantine and social distancing measures that Bundesliga clubs have instituted are also being scrutinised in Italy and Spain, whose leagues are some way from being able to consider resuming.“It will be a barometer, the reference point for all the others… if it all goes well it will be a great success and if there’s a big problem it will have a similarly powerful negative effect,” Movistar+ commentator Barbero said."
Web Desk,Babar Azam appointed ODI captain,2020-05-13,"— Azhar Ali to lead green shirts in TestsLAHORE: The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) on Wednesday confirmed the appointment of young run machine Babar Azam as the new captain of the national one day international (ODI) team, initially for the 2020-21 season.According to a press release issued by the board, the number one T20 batsman in the world, who was selected in October last year to lead the T20 team, will now captain the ODI outfit as well. The press release also announced the retention of seasoned batsman Azhar Ali as Test captain.“I want to congratulate Azhar Ali and Babar Azam for getting captaincy extensions. This is absolutely the right decision as they also require certainty and clarity on their future roles,” said head coach Misbah-ul-Haq.“I am sure they will now start looking to the future and start planning so that they can build sides that can perform at the expected levels,” the batting legend added.The ODI captaincy’s status had been unclear since last year when Sarfaraz Ahmed was sacked. Due to no ODIs scheduled for the remainder of the season, the captaincy had been in limbo until Wednesday’s clarification."
Web Desk,"Like death: How ‘Thrilla in Manila’ changed Ali, Frazier forever",2020-05-12,"NEW YORK: When Muhammad Ali survived 14 brutal rounds with Joe Frazier in the ‘Thrilla in Manila’ 45 years ago, it wrote a page in boxing folklore but left both men forever diminished.Fought in the Philippines’ stifling daytime heat, with barely functioning air conditioning, Frazier was beaten nearly blind and Ali was on the verge of surrender.In the end, it was Frazier’s trainer who threw in the towel to hand Ali victory on October 1, 1975, settling their head-to-head 2-1. But the fight came at a cost to both men.“Ali and Frazier would never be the same again, after pouring and spending practically all their power and durability in Manila,” said Recah Trinidad, a Philippine boxing columnist.“The fighters went to destroy, not merely to outfight each other,” he added.Ali, who had beaten George Foreman in the ‘Rumble in the Jungle’ in Zaire a year earlier, came into the fight at 33, his best years well behind him.They battled inside the 25,000-seat Araneta Coliseum with such ferocity that spectators including Imelda Marcos, wife of then-Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos, were spattered with blood.“It was like death. Closest thing to dyin’ that I know of,” Ali later said of the bout.Ali set an acrimonious tone in the weeks leading to the fight, enraging Frazier, 31, by likening him to a giant ape.“It’s gonna be a thrilla, and a chilla, and a killa, when I get the gorilla in Manila,” Ali boasted, coining the nickname that still resonates today.On fight day the momentum swung back and forth between the men, who were in their third and final match-up.BRUTAL BEATDOWNThe fight in the tropics was staged in the daytime to suit US television audiences, but the crowd and TV lights overwhelmed the air-conditioning.“At 125 degrees — we were fighting each other (as well as) against the heat,” Frazier said in the 2008 documentary “Thrilla in Manila”.Ali’s blows had swollen Frazier’s right eye nearly shut, and he was nearly blind in his left due to a training injury.His face soaked in blood, Frazier argued with his trainer Eddie Futch to let him come out for the 15th round, but Futch stopped the fight.Later, it was revealed that Ali himself wanted to quit.His biographer Thomas Hauser told the 2008 documentary that at the end of the round an Ali cornerman heard the champion telling trainer Angelo Dundee to “cut ’em (gloves) off”.“Round 14 was the closest I’ve seen somebody come to killing somebody,” Ali’s fight doctor Ferdie Pacheco told the documentary makers.But after the Thrilla, “both men were never the same again”, said Nick Giongco, a sports analyst at the Manila Bulletin.He said that although Ali would defend his world title a further six times, and regain it in a rematch after losing to Leon Spinks in 1978, the self-styled “Greatest of All Time” never fully recovered from the “brutal beatdown” Frazier had inflicted.Ali would finally hang up his gloves in 1981 aged 39, following consecutive losses to Larry Holmes and Trevor Berbick. He retired with a win-loss record of 56-5.The “Louisville Lip” died nearly four years ago after a long battle with Parkinson’s disease.“Smokin’ Joe” (32-4-1) fought only twice more after the Manila epic, being stopped by Foreman for a second time in 1976 before coming out of retirement five years later to draw with the unheralded Floyd Cummings over 10 rounds. Frazier died in 2011."
Web Desk,"PCB, ECB to discuss future of England tour amid coronavirus crisis",2020-05-12,"LAHORE: Pakistan Cricket Board’s (PCB) Chief Executive Wasim Khan has said that they will not rush into a decision about their upcoming tour of England during the coronavirus pandemic.England are scheduled to host the South Asian side for three tests from July 30, followed by three Twenty20 internationals, but with the UK struggling to contain COVID-19 Wasim said they would wait a few more weeks before confirming a decision.The England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) has already said that the sport will not resume until July, though it is likely to be in stadiums without fans.“Health and safety is paramount for our players and officials and we are not going to compromise on it,” Wasim told reporters on Monday.“The situation in England is poor right now, and we will ask them about their plans. We are not making any decisions, but we will assess and decide in next three to four weeks.“This isn’t an easy situation, and it isn’t an easy decision to make, because things are changing every day in England.“There are so many things to be considered – flights, hotels and they are talking about bio-security stadiums … so if people ask me, I will tell them to wait and be patient.”PCB executives, along with coach Misbah-ul-Haq, are scheduled to discuss the arrangements with their ECB counterparts on Friday via video conference.Test cricket returned to Pakistan after a decade with a two-match series against Sri Lanka in December. The series marked Pakistan’s first tests on home soil since a militant attack on Sri Lanka’s team bus in Lahore in 2009.The world’s top sides have been reluctant to return to Pakistan, though England are scheduled to tour next year while Australia are due to visit in 2022.Wasim said the PCB would not make England’s visit a pre-condition of travelling to the United Kingdom for the upcoming series.“It’s a tough situation for everyone right now, and I don’t think it’s fair to take advantage of the situation,” Khan said, adding he was hopeful England and Australia would come to Pakistan.“The most important thing for us is to revive the game for all countries. If we don’t, we will be facing a lot of problems going forward.“The next 12 months will be tough for cricket financially … thankfully, the PCB is fine for the next 12 months but thereafter, in 18 months’ time, we will also have problems. Hopefully, by then, cricket will resume.”"
Web Desk,IPL cancellation could cost BCCI half a billion dollars,2020-05-12,"NEW DELHI: Scrapping the money-spinning Indian Premier League (IPL) this year because of the coronavirus pandemic would cost more than half a billion dollars, but cutting players’ pay was not yet being considered, a top official has told AFP. The world’s richest Twenty20 tournament is staring at the first wipeout in its 12-year history after the original March 29 start date was postponed repeatedly.Cancellation of the IPL for 2020 would mean a huge financial hit.“The BCCI is looking at a big revenue loss. In case the IPL does not take place, the loss would be close to 40 billion rupees ($530 million), or even more,” said Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) treasurer Arun Dhumal.India, like other cricket nations, is anxious to see a return to competitive international sport but has to follow government orders and advice.“We are not sure whether we will be able to have it this year,” he admitted.A one-day international series against South Africa in March has already been cancelled but it is the IPL, which began in 2008, that generates the bulk of BCCI revenue and is thought to be worth more than $11 billion a year to the Indian economy. “We will only be able to figure out the exact revenue loss once we are sure of how many games we have lost,” said Dhumal.The IPL brand value was estimated at $6.7 billion last year by the Duff and Phelps financial consultancy.Indian broadcaster Star Sports paid more than $220 million for five years of TV rights up to 2022. But it was reportedly targeting $400 million of revenue in 2020 alone.‘Safety is paramount’Gripped by an international lockdown, many national boards have been forced into cost-cutting.Cricket Australia has laid off most of its staff while the England and Wales Cricket Board has announced pay cuts.Other top sports, such as football’s English Premier League and Spain’s La Liga, have also seen players accept wage cuts.But Dhumal, who joined the BCCI leadership last year alongside president Sourav Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah, said that it was hoped to avoid pay cuts for players.“That would be the last thing that we would want to do at our end,” said Dhumal.“That is why we are working (on) how much is the loss finally we have to pay.“So once we are able to assess that then we might consider it, but it will be the last thing on our agenda.” Dhumal said India’s tour of Sri Lanka, scheduled to begin in June, would only go ahead if the pandemic eases.“The safety and health of our cricketers is paramount and any shred of doubt, we will not shy away from calling it off.”He said The BCCI leadership was in constant discussions with the International Cricket Council about restarting competitive cricket.Doubts remain over the Twenty20 World Cup beginning in October in Australia and India’s four-Test, three-ODI tour afterwards.Dhumal has been quoted as saying that Indian players would be ready to go into a two-week quarantine before the tour. But he told AFP this would only apply if the World Cup were cancelled.“In case we are already there for the T20 World Cup then there is no question of quarantine because we will already have been there for a month or so,” he said.“Cricket Australia are also not in a position to come up with something concrete. A lot will depend on the government and the travel bans in place. Let’s see how they go about it.”"
Web Desk,"Roland Garros could be behind closed doors, says French tennis boss",2020-05-10,"PARIS: French tennis chief Bernard Guidicelli admitted Sunday that Roland Garros, already controversially pushed back four months due to the coronavirus, could be staged behind closed doors.Guidicelli, who said that the French federation (FFT) had “no regrets” over its unilateral decision to move the clay court Grand Slam from May 24-June 7 to September 20-October 4, insisted all options remain on the table.“We haven’t ruled out any option. Roland Garros is first and foremost a story of matches and players,” he told the Journal du Dimanche.“There is the tournament taking place in the stadium, and the tournament on TV screens.“Millions of viewers around the world are waiting. Organising it behind closed doors would allow part of the business model — television rights (which account for more than a third of the tournament’s revenues) — to go ahead. This cannot be overlooked.”The spread of the coronavirus has halted all tennis since mid-March and will not resume until July 13 at the earliest.Wimbledon has already been cancelled for the first time since the Second World War.The US Open, due to take place in New York from Aug 31-Sept 13, is also in question with a decision expected in mid-June.Close to 500,000 fans regularly attend Roland Garros every year.However, an indication as to the thinking around the 2020 edition came on Thursday when the FFT decided to reimburse all tickets bought for the original date of the tournament rather than transfer them.Guidicelli admitted that the start of the rescheduled French Open could even be pushed back a further week to begin on September 27.That would allow a two-week break between the US Open and Roland Garros.“I have regular discussions with Andrea Gaudenzi (president of the ATP), Steve Simon (president of the WTA) and David Haggerty (head of the ITF) and another call is planned next week to see how we have progressed.“We are working well together, but it is still a bit early to precisely determine the schedule.”Guidicelli is adamant that the FFT was right to shift the tournament back by four months with the death toll from the coronavirus in France standing at 26,310 by Saturday night.“Roland Garros is the driving force of tennis in France, it is what feeds the players in our ecosystem (260 million euros in revenue, or 80% of the turnover of the FFT),” added Guidicelli, describing himself as the “good father”.“We think of them first, protecting them. We made a courageous choice and today, no one regrets it.”“A tournament without a date is a boat without a rudder — we don’t know where we’re going.“We positioned ourselves as far in the calendar as possible, anxious not to harm major events, so that no Masters 1000 or any Grand Slam would be affected. The turn of events seems to have proved us right.”"
Web Desk,Gaethje dominates in UFC’s return as Trump congratulates promoters,2020-05-10,"NEW YORK: The Ultimate Fighting Championship Saturday became the first major American sporting event held since the US coronavirus outbreak, with President Donald Trump congratulating the promoter.The controversial card put the UFC in the spotlight like never before, but did not go off without a hitch after middleweight Ronaldo ‘Jacare’ Souza was dropped when he and two of his cornermen tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday.The main event saw Justin Gaethje dominate Tony Ferguson with a fifth-round technical knockout victory in the lightweight division. Gaethje finished his opponent off three minutes and 39 seconds into the fifth to earn the interim lightweight crown.“It worked out great,” said promoter Dana White. “I am happy with the way it went tonight.”In a pre-recorded video shown during the undercard fights, Trump — who in November attended a UFC card — congratulated White for the sport’s return.“Get the sports leagues back, let’s play,” the president said. “You do the social distancing and whatever else you have to do, but we need sports. We want our sports back.”The fights were staged in an empty 15,000-seat VyStar Veterans Memorial arena in Jacksonville, Florida, after earlier attempts to hold it in New York and California failed due to pandemic restrictions on live sporting events.The global outbreak has largely shut down the American economy, but Florida authorities have deemed professional sports — including mixed martial arts — essential businesses.White downplayed the negative impact of Souza’s positive test and insisted it showed they were on top of things.“Obviously the system that we set up works. We found out he was positive and all the other tests were negative,” he said.“We have two more fights this week. We will do over 1,100 tests.”He has also announced cards for Wednesday and next Saturday in Jacksonville — despite stating he expects to see more positive coronavirus tests this week.“When you are testing that much I am sure we are going to find somebody else who is positive,” White told ESPN."
Web Desk,Third Brighton player tests positive for coronavirus,2020-05-10,"LONDON: Brighton chief executive Paul Barber on Sunday revealed a third player at the Premier League club has tested positive for the coronavirus, raising fresh concerns about the attempt to finish the English top-flight season.The unnamed player was tested on Saturday and will self-isolate for 14 days while he recovers from the virus.The rest of Brighton’s squad will continue to train at home and in solo sessions at the team’s training ground.Two other Brighton players, who were not named, contracted the virus several weeks ago and have reportedly recovered.“Unfortunately we have had a third player test positive just yesterday,” Barber told Sky Sports News.“Despite all the measures we have all been taking over the last few weeks, when the players haven’t been involved in taking any significant training at all, we have still suffered another player testing positive for the virus.“There are concerns and I think it is normal for all clubs to have those concerns.“We want to make sure we do all that we can so the protocols that are put into place are safe and secure and mitigate the risk.”In Germany, Bundesliga 2 side Dynamo Dresden have put their entire squad and coaching staff into two-week isolation after two players tested positive for coronavirus.The Bundesliga and Bundesliga 2 are due to restart on May 16.Brighton’s latest positive test comes ahead of Monday’s Premier League meeting, where clubs are expected to debate the plan to complete the season behind closed doors at neutral venues and vote on whether player contracts will be extended until the end of the rescheduled campaign.The Premier League would like to restart the season in June and play the remaining 92 fixtures by August.Barber has been critical of the neutral venue idea, insisting that the campaign should still be played on a home-and-away basis as Brighton battle to avoid relegation.Norwich, Watford and Aston Villa were in the relegation zone when the Premier League was suspended because of the health crisis on March 13.SELF-INTERESTBrighton have received criticism for their vocal stance, but Barber insists all clubs will act with a degree of self-interest.“People will accuse us of self-interest, I totally understand that, but at this stage of the season there is self-interest at every level of the table,” he added.“There is as much self-interest at the top as there is at the bottom, there is as much self-interest in the middle as there is at the bottom.“Everyone has different objectives for the season and we are all looking to play out the season, if it is safe to do so.“We really do want to play and we want to make sure the competition stays as fair as it can be despite these exceptional circumstances that we are facing.”Aston Villa and Watford have joined Brighton in speaking out against the neutral stadium plan.But Crystal Palace chairman Steve Parish has backed the 20 clubs to eventually come to a consensus.“There are no easy answers, we have to work through it as a collective and I think we will and come out with a consensus in the end,” he told the BBC.“(The meeting) is another part of the journey in trying to get football back. We would be derelict in our duty if we did not find a way for the game to come back.“It may prove beyond us, we have huge challenges in order to get it back to complete the season but we are planning on doing so.”"
Web Desk,Ricciardo braced for ‘chaos’ when Formula One starts,2020-05-09,"PERTH: Australia’s Daniel Ricciardo anticipates “chaos”, “rust” and “adrenaline” should the 2020 Formula One season start at last.The global spread of the coronavirus has already led to 10 races, of what was to have been a record 22-event championship, being either cancelled or postponed.Officials at the FIA, motorsport’s world governing body, are hoping to launch the season behind closed doors in Austria on July 5.“(It will be) some form of chaos, hopefully in a controlled manner,” the Renault driver told BBC Radio Five Live.“I am not really referencing cars everywhere. But there is going to be so much rust, a combination of emotion, excitement, eagerness.”Ricciardo, waiting out the crisis on his farm near Perth, Western Australia, believes a dramatic season-opener is in prospect at the Red Bull Ring.“Everyone is going to be ready to go,” he said. “You are going to get some guys who perform on that level of adrenaline and others who might not.“So you’re going to get some bold overtakes, some miscalculated ones.“You’re going to see a bit of everything, I’m sure.”Even though the pandemic means it has been several months since Ricciardo was on a race track, the 30-year-old believes his experience of eight full seasons of Grand Prix racing means he will be in the right physical condition should the 2020 campaign finally get underway.“If this was my first year or two in F1, if I was still not completely adapted to it, my answer would be yes (it would take me time to get used to driving again),” he said.“But winter testing is normally a good reference point. My first few winter testings, day one always felt like a bit of a shock to the system again. And the further my career has gone on, the less of a shock that has been.“The rookies, the first-year, second-year guys, will feel it a little bit more.”"
Web Desk,Ronaldo Souza’s positive coronavirus test hangs over controversial UFC return,2020-05-09,"LOS ANGELES: The controversial mixed martial arts card scheduled for Saturday in Florida will go ahead as planned despite one of the undercard fighters testing positive for coronavirus.Ronaldo ‘Jacare’ Souza was dropped from the Jacksonville event after he was diagnosed with COVID-19 on Friday. He arrived in Florida earlier in the week.Two of Souza’s cornermen also tested positive.“UFC’s medical team examined Souza and his two cornermen and found them to be currently asymptomatic, or not exhibiting the common symptoms of COVID-19,” organizers said in a statement late Friday night.“All three men have left the host hotel and will be self-isolating off premises.”Middleweight Souza, of Brazil, was scheduled to fight Uriah Hall on the undercard of the televised Ultimate Fighting Championship 249 event which is being held without spectators.Souza attended the weigh-in wearing a protective mask and was kept at a distance from Hall who also had a mask and gloves on.Although Souza — who is not showing symptoms — will not fight, the other 11 bouts will go ahead. Officials said the other 23 fighters on the card have tested negative.“Brother I know it sucks. I’m sorry you have to go through this. I am beyond devastated for the missed opportunity,” Hall tweeted on Friday night.The card is UFC chief Dana White’s attempt to drag the mixed martial arts series out of coronavirus quarantine.White, who has also announced cards for May 13 and 16 in Jacksonville, insisted before Souza tested positive the production won’t put anyone at risk.“Listen, we have families, too,” White told CNN Sport. “I have a family; I don’t want to hurt my family. I don’t want to die.“This isn’t just some crazy, this is a well thought-out plan. We’ve had very, very smart people, doctors and people that have been involved with the UFC for a very long time working on this thing non-stop since it started.“We believe that we have this thing in a place where it can be as safe as it can possibly be.”White’s controversial plans to stage a fight card in April on an Indian tribal reservation in California were thwarted.But he got the green light in Florida to hold bouts without spectators from Veterans Memorial Stadium in Jacksonville, headlined by an interim lightweight title bout between Tony Ferguson and Justin Gaethje.Both fighters made weight on Friday at a weigh-in where media members and most UFC staff were kept at a distance, those closer to the fighters wore masks and the scale was sanitized.Bantamweight champion Henry Cejudo and former champ Dominick Cruz both made weight for their title bout as well.With the National Basketball Association, Major League Baseball, the National Hockey League and Major League Soccer all on hold — along with the US PGA Tour and LPGA — White touts the return of UFC as a step toward normalcy and a boon for sport-starved fans.And he said US President Donald Trump would be watching, in a conference call with US sports league leaders back in April.“The president’s take on it was we have to get live sports back first,” White told the Los Angeles Times.“Show everybody how to do it safely. Give people who have to stay home some entertainment so they’re not bouncing off the walls.”“From there, we can figure out how we get people back to work and how we get kids back to schools,” he added.He said by going first, he hoped other leagues might also reopen.White attempted to avoid California’s lockdown measures when he planned the April 18 event on Indian casino land, but Walt Disney Co — owner of UFC broadcaster ESPN — later asked him to postpone.Florida governor Ron DeSantis opened the door when he gave “essential services” status to employees at pro sports and media productions with a national audience."
Web Desk,"Inter, AC Milan resume training in coronavirus epicenter",2020-05-09,"MILAN: Italian football giants Inter Milan and AC Milan were both back training on Friday two months after a strict lockdown which has hit the northern Italian city hard.Inter said all their players and staff had tested negative for the coronavirus on Friday, clearing the way for them to return to individual training.Captain Samir Handanovic led the way in the afternoon as players, including Belgium striker Romelu Lukaku, wearing face masks and some in gloves, arrived at the team’s Appiano Gentile training centre, 35km northwest of Milan.Temperatures were taken on arrival with three groups of players alternating in the afternoon to respect social distancing rules.Their city rival resumed earlier in the week with club technical director Paolo Maldini warning “not going back on the pitch would be a disaster.”Former captain Maldini, together with his 18-year-old son Daniel, a Milan youth team player, have both recovered from COVID-19, but the San Siro outfit revealed on Friday that some squad members are still not negative.“You have to be careful, but not to resume would be a disaster from all points of view,” 51-year-old Maldini said during an Instagram Live chat on Friday.“France were wrong to decree the end immediately, but we will accept what will be the verdict of the government. There is so much uncertainty.”The city in the northern Lombardy region is the epicentre of Italy’s outbreak, one of the worst in Europe in terms of deaths and infections.It has suffered some 15,000 deaths, around half of Italy’s 30,000 coronavirus fatalities, since the outbreak first erupted in early March.NEGATIVE SIGNALSOne by one stars have returned to Italy with Juventus forward Cristiano Ronaldo in two weeks’ coronavirus quarantine as his team got back to training on Tuesday.Milan are awaiting the return of Swedish star Zlatan Ibrahimovic early next week.But opinions are divided on whether to follow France and the Netherlands and end the season or the Bundesliga and return behind closed doors.The Italian Football Federation (FIGC) met on Thursday with the government’s technical scientific committee to discuss details of the medical protocol for a return to group training.“Tell us what we need to do to return to play,” FIGC president Gabriele Gravina was reported to have told government officials.Italian Sports Minister Vincenzo Spadafora said afterwards he was “hopeful” group training could resume on May 18.“I don’t want to risk forecasts at this time, we must be careful,” said Spadafora. “If it is to be resumed, it will be behind closed doors.”Almost at the same time as the meeting two clubs, Fiorentina and Sampdoria, announced ten positive tests — seven players and three staff members.In addition, a Torino player tested positive on Wednesday, giving “extremely negative signals for a restart of the championship,” according to newspaper Il Messagero.Italian football bosses want to follow the example of Germany, which returns to action on May 16 and where only positive cases would be put into isolation.But the scientific committee insisted football must comply with the general rule that those who have been in contact with positive cases should be isolated.In this scenario, any positive screening after the resumption of collective training on May 18, would sideline the entire team.Another obstacle is the scientific committee protocol requires regular repeated screening for each player, which means clubs would need to acquire a considerable number of testing kits, which could prove difficult in regions such as Lombardy.There is also the problem of individual regions which could refuse to host teams from highly-infected areas.Serie A, meanwhile, has called an emergency assembly next Wednesday to take stock of the situation, and also to discuss TV rights."
Web Desk,Juventus players back training awaiting quarantined Ronaldo,2020-05-06,"ROME: Giorgio Chiellini led the way as Juventus players returned to individual training at the team’s sports centre on Tuesday, while Cristiano Ronaldo began two weeks’ coronavirus quarantine after returning to Italy. Captain Chiellini, 35, arrived early with Italy defender Leonardo Bonucci, wearing a black face mask, just after midfielder Aaron Ramsey. Playmaker Miralem Pjanic showed up in the afternoon, along with Juan Cuadrado, Mattia De Sciglio, Federico Bernardeschi and Daniele Rugani.Serie A champions Juve said the training sessions, which are allowed thanks to Sunday’s green light from the Italian interior ministry, “will take place on an individual basis and with staggered arrivals to allow full compliance with the regulations in force”.“After a day of tests and exams carried out yesterday at J Medical, some of the Juventus players started training at the Continassa Training Centre, where they officially began their recovery to regain competitive form,” Juve added.Ronaldo’s return is more uncertain after two months of confinement on his native island of Madeira, having played in Juventus’ last match against Inter Milan on March 8 behind closed doors.The five-time Ballon d’Or winner returned with his family to Turin by private jet late on Monday and is in quarantine awaiting tests.The interior ministry’s go-ahead has allowed players to return to club training facilities two weeks ahead of schedule, offering a glimmer of hope that the 2019-20 season might yet be saved.As well as Juventus, top-flight clubs Atalanta, Bologna and Udinese also got back to training on Tuesday, with Sassuolo and Lecce leading the way on Monday.But sports minister Vincenzo Spadafora warned training in groups must wait until May 18, and it remains uncertain whether matches can restart as the country battles the COVID-19 pandemic which has killed more than 29,000 in Italy.‘Surreal’“A realistic prediction can be made in mid-May,” Spadafora said in an interview with newspaper Corriere della Sera on Tuesday, denying he wanted to call a halt to the season.“It would be surreal for a sports minister to demonise football,” he said after a newspaper created a front-page photo of him with a dagger about to burst a ball, with the headline “Attack on Football”.“I hope to start again, but the government will decide … There is no opposition from me, just the desire to evaluate a restart only if the health of the people within the team group will be safeguarded. “If the government is forced, and I hope not, to admit that the conditions (needed to resume) are not there, my commitment will be twofold — limit the financial damage to clubs and support the whole world of sport.“Between ordinary and extraordinary resources, we will invest about one billion euros ($1.08 billion) for the sector as a whole.”A meeting has been scheduled for Thursday between the Italian Football Federation (FIGC) and members of the government’s Technical Scientific Committee to discuss the medical protocol for the resumption of group training.European federations have a deadline of May 25 to inform UEFA if their league will resume, and if so on what date and with what format."
Web Desk,Tour de Khunjerab cycling race cancelled due to coronavirus,2020-05-05,"ISLAMABAD: The third edition of International Tour de Khunjerab cycle race has been cancelled due to the global coronavirus, Pakistan Cycling Federation (PCF) said on Tuesday.“The event was scheduled to be held from June 18 to 21 in collaboration with the government of Gilgit-Baltistan,”Syed Azhar Ali Shah, the President of PCF told APP.According to Shah several foreign teams as well as top national athletes were set to participate in the race.“Next year’s Tour de Khunjerab will only be held if the conditions improve,” he said.He said that as the International Cycling Union (UCI) had cancelled all its events due to the prevailing situation, triggered by coronavirus, the involvement of international teams had become doubtful in Tour de Khunjerab.“This led to the Gilgit-Baltistan government and the PCF to take a joint decision to cancel the event,” he said."
Web Desk,Kookaburra waxes lyrical over anti-virus cricket ball innovation,2020-05-05,"MELBOURNE: Australian cricket ball manufacturer Kookaburra is developing a wax applicator that allows players to shine the ball without using saliva or sweat, minimising the risk of COVID-19 transmission.Players regularly shine one side of the leather-clad ball and scuff up the other to make the ball swing sideways in mid-flight and deceive the batter.But rubbing spit or sweat into the ball’s surface is expressly forbidden under Australian Institute of Sport guidelines released last week that set out the conditions for the game to resume.Kookaburra said its wax applicator, while still in “very early stage product development”, could provide a solution.“At Kookaburra we are committed to continuous improvement and innovation in the game we love,” general manager David Orchard told AFP.“As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic we are always looking for solutions to allow our game to be played safely by all cricketing communities around the world,” he said.Cricket is suspended around the globe because of the pandemic and the wax applicator would need approval from governing bodies to be used when play resumes.Kookaburra’s innovation involves using a sponge to apply small amounts of wax to the ball.Current laws forbid the use of artificial substances to alter the ball but there is a long history of tampering that goes well beyond bowlers spitting on the ball and rubbing it on their clothing.Test players have been accused of using lozenges, petroleum jelly and resin to shine the ball, and also scuffing it with bottle tops, trouser zippers and grit.The most notorious recent case was in 2018, when some Australian players attempted to alter the ball with sandpaper during a Test against South Africa in Cape Town, resulting in lengthy bans for those involved."
Web Desk,"PCB announces financial incentive for cricketers, staff amid pandemic",2020-05-03,"LAHORE: The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) on Sunday announced to provide financial help to cricketers, match officials and ground staff facing hardship amid the Covid-19 pandemic.According to a statement, the board will provide Rs25,000 to first-class cricketers, Rs15,000 to match officials and Rs10,000 to scorers and ground staff who fulfill the conditions set by the body.The PCB, which according to the statement will ensure only the deserving candidates are supported, has rolled out an eligibility criterion, according to which:First-class cricketers who featured in the 2018-19 season and have played at least 15 first-class matches in the past five seasons from 2014-15 to 2018-19Match officials and scorers who have officiated in PCB-organised events over the past two seasonsGround staff which had been employed by the now-defunct regional/district cricket associations before Jan 1, 2013 (should have approximately eight years of service)According to the statement, PCB chief Ehsan Mani said that the cricket board is aware of its “duty of care towards its stakeholders and, as such, it is imperative that we stand by our people during the lockdown period and support them in the lead up to Eid Al-Fitr”.The statement noted that “it was the right time to support cricketers, match officials, scorers and grounds staff” when the epidemic has virtually brought life to a standstill leading to a halt in economic activity.“It is also heartening to see our cricketers coming out and supporting the people in need by auctioning their prized possessions and through various charities. While I am sure many players are making donations in private, I want to applaud and appreciate Shahid Afridi, Rumman Raees and Azhar Ali who have been at the forefront of this noble cause and have been doing outstanding work,” Mani said."
Web Desk,Brighton chief’s ‘integrity’ fears in neutral venues plan,2020-05-03,"BRIGHTON: Brighton chief executive Paul Barber fears plans to complete the Premier League season at neutral venues could have a “material effect on the integrity of the competition.” As the tournament wrestles with how to finish the campaign which still has 92 games to play, the idea of using up to 10 neutral venues for the behind closed doors games is seen as the only means to guarantee safety.“Clearly, we must all be prepared to accept some compromises, and we fully appreciate why playing behind closed doors is very likely to be a necessary compromise to play our remaining games while continuing to fully support the government’s efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus,” Barber told the Brighton website.“But at this critical point in the season playing matches in neutral venues has, in our view, potential to have a material effect on the integrity of the competition.”Brighton were due to be at home for five of their remaining nine matches as they fight for their Premier League lives.Barber worries the loss of home advantage could prove critical – even without fans.“The disadvantages of us not playing the league’s top teams in our home stadium and in familiar surroundings, even with 27,000 Albion fans very unlikely to be present at the Amex, are very obvious,” Barber said.“Clearly, we must accept there may also be some benefit from playing our remaining four away matches at neutral venues but the fixture list simply isn’t equally balanced at this stage of the season, and we didn’t play our first 29 matches of the season in this way.“So, in our opinion, one thing doesn’t cancel out the other.”Britain’s Press Associaton claimed the Premier League will look at using between eight and 10 stadiums, with venues likely to be chosen for ease of ensuring social distancing – which would appear to favour more out-of-town sites.Some reports had even named Brighton’s Amex Stadium as among the stadiums under consideration.However, Barber said it was speculation at this stage.“We haven’t been asked if we would consider our stadium being used as a neutral venue for any remaining Premier League matches – by our colleagues at the league, the government or the police.“So I am unable to say why our stadium has been included in the reports,” he said."
Web Desk,"No shaking, no showering, no sharing: Welcome to post-virus tennis",2020-05-02,"by Agencies , (Last Updated May 2, 2020)PARIS: No shaking, no showering, no sharing, no signing.Welcome to what the world of tennis could look like once government restrictions caused by the coronavirus pandemic have been lifted.On Friday, the International Tennis Federation (ITF), issued a set of guidelines for local and national-level competitions.“They emphasise that decisions made by governments take precedence and that tennis (either competitive or recreational) should not be played until governments have sufficiently relaxed any restrictions that are currently in place,” said an ITF statement.The guidelines include arriving at a venue already dressed and leaving immediately after the conclusion of a match.“Do not use the locker rooms or showers,” say the ITF.Masks are to be worn while off-court, players and officials should maintain at least two metres between each other while hand shakes are also off limits.Each player is asked to use their own set of balls – separately numbered.Ball boys and girls to wear rubber gloves while at changeovers, players must go around opposite sides of the net.Players are also discouraged from signing autographs and from taking selfies while being warned not share equipment, water bottles or food.Tournaments should also only be singles and played without spectators.“While following measures such as these will ensure that the risk from COVID-19 is minimised, the guidelines are clear that the risk cannot be eliminated altogether,” added the ITF.The professional ATP and WTA tours have been suspended since mid-March and are not expected to resume until July 13 at the earliest."
Web Desk,India to step up battle for 2032 Olympics after pandemic: sports chief,2020-05-02,"MUMBAI: India will step up its battle to win the 2032 Olympic Games and other international events when the global coronavirus pandemic eases, its top sports leader Narinder Batra told AFP.Ten years after hosting the Commonwealth Games, the Indian Olympic Association president said his country had lessons to learn but would not be deterred.“We are serious and definitely pitching for the 2026 Youth Olympic Games and the 2032 Olympics,” he said Friday.India has already written expressions of interest to the International Olympic Committee but faces reported competition from Thailand, Russia and Colombia for the 2026 event.Queensland in Australia, Shanghai and a potential joint bid between Seoul and Pyongyang are also being touted for the 2032 Olympics.However, the pandemic has halted all debate. Batra, also head of the International Hockey Federation, said “documentation” has started for 2032 but work is now frozen. A final decision may take until 2025.“Now there is a team that visits the various venues and you keep talking to them and then they submit a report. It is a continuous process which I believe will see no activity until December,” India’s most influential sports leader said.“This is not the time to talk with business houses or government about pitching for the Olympics. The first thing should be how we sort out this problem which has come into the world,” Batra added, referring to the virus.Delhi’s hosting of the Commonwealth Games was marked by construction delays, failing infrastructure and accusations of financial mismanagement.More recently, Delhi was stripped of the 2021 world boxing championships, with the global body accusing organisers of failing to pay a hosting fee on time.Batra said he knew nothing of the boxing dispute but insisted that the 2010 multi-sport event had made India think big and its growing economic clout means it has resources.“I can say the biggest takeaway was that India is capable of hosting all big-ticket events whether it is Olympics or any other Games,” said Batra.But he added that New Delhi did not capitalise enough on the 2010 Games by encouraging more young athletes.HOCKEY HOPES“The Delhi event fell short on legacy values. The legacy that you produce more athletes and you develop them never happened here and that is why tournaments shifted out of Delhi,” he said.“The fact that such a big event happened here was not properly exploited.”India has a population of 1.3 billion people but while it excels at cricket, its team returned from the 2016 Rio Olympics with just two medals.The coronavirus pandemic has only made it harder for athletes to train for the postponed Tokyo Olympics, put back until at least 2021.But Batra is sticking to his prediction that India will get more than 10 medals whenever the next Games are held.“About 80 Indian athletes have already qualified for the Olympics and are being monitored by directors and chief coaches,” he said.“So I maintain my earlier prediction of a double-figure medal tally and I don’t think this situation will change anything.”Batra said he was counting on the men’s hockey team — which has won eight Olympic golds but not finished in the first four since 1980 — to return to success.“In this Olympics I am certainly looking to the men’s team for a medal,” he said."
Web Desk,India to step up battle for 2032 Olympics after pandemic: sports chief,2020-05-02,"MUMBAI: India will step up its battle to win the 2032 Olympic Games and other international events when the global coronavirus pandemic eases, its top sports leader Narinder Batra told AFP.Ten years after hosting the Commonwealth Games, the Indian Olympic Association president said his country had lessons to learn but would not be deterred.“We are serious and definitely pitching for the 2026 Youth Olympic Games and the 2032 Olympics,” he said Friday.India has already written expressions of interest to the International Olympic Committee but faces reported competition from Thailand, Russia and Colombia for the 2026 event.Queensland in Australia, Shanghai and a potential joint bid between Seoul and Pyongyang are also being touted for the 2032 Olympics.However, the pandemic has halted all debate. Batra, also head of the International Hockey Federation, said “documentation” has started for 2032 but work is now frozen. A final decision may take until 2025.“Now there is a team that visits the various venues and you keep talking to them and then they submit a report. It is a continuous process which I believe will see no activity until December,” India’s most influential sports leader said.“This is not the time to talk with business houses or government about pitching for the Olympics. The first thing should be how we sort out this problem which has come into the world,” Batra added, referring to the virus.Delhi’s hosting of the Commonwealth Games was marked by construction delays, failing infrastructure and accusations of financial mismanagement.More recently, Delhi was stripped of the 2021 world boxing championships, with the global body accusing organisers of failing to pay a hosting fee on time.Batra said he knew nothing of the boxing dispute but insisted that the 2010 multi-sport event had made India think big and its growing economic clout means it has resources.“I can say the biggest takeaway was that India is capable of hosting all big-ticket events whether it is Olympics or any other Games,” said Batra.But he added that New Delhi did not capitalise enough on the 2010 Games by encouraging more young athletes.HOCKEY HOPES“The Delhi event fell short on legacy values. The legacy that you produce more athletes and you develop them never happened here and that is why tournaments shifted out of Delhi,” he said.“The fact that such a big event happened here was not properly exploited.”India has a population of 1.3 billion people but while it excels at cricket, its team returned from the 2016 Rio Olympics with just two medals.The coronavirus pandemic has only made it harder for athletes to train for the postponed Tokyo Olympics, put back until at least 2021.But Batra is sticking to his prediction that India will get more than 10 medals whenever the next Games are held.“About 80 Indian athletes have already qualified for the Olympics and are being monitored by directors and chief coaches,” he said.“So I maintain my earlier prediction of a double-figure medal tally and I don’t think this situation will change anything.”Batra said he was counting on the men’s hockey team — which has won eight Olympic golds but not finished in the first four since 1980 — to return to success.“In this Olympics I am certainly looking to the men’s team for a medal,” he said."
Web Desk,Judge rules against US women’s soccer team in equal pay case,2020-05-02,"WASHINGTON: A federal judge dismissed the United States women’s soccer team’s bid for equal pay on Friday, rejecting claims the players had been underpaid in a crushing defeat for the reigning world champions. In a 32-page ruling, Judge Gary Klausner of the US District Court for Central California in Los Angeles tossed the women’s claim of pay discrimination, ruling in favour of the United States Soccer Federation (USSF).Klausner did allow the women’s case for unfair treatment in areas such as travel, housing and medical support to proceed to trial, set for June 16 in Los Angeles.But the judge said the equal pay claims — the central plank of the case — had been dismissed because there was evidence the women had previously turned down an offer in the Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiations to be paid along the lines of the US men’s team.“The history of negotiations between the parties demonstrates that the WNT rejected an offer to be paid under the same pay-to-play structure as the MNT, and the WNT was willing to forgo higher bonuses for benefits, such as greater base compensation and the guarantee of a higher number of contracted players,” Klausner wrote.“Accordingly, plaintiffs cannot now retroactively deem their CBA (collective bargaining agreement) worse than the MNT CBA by reference to what they would have made had they been paid under the MNT’s pay-to-play terms structure when they themselves rejected such a structure,” he said.‘Shocked and disappointed’The US women were left stunned by their defeat on the pay issue. The women had been seeking back pay of $66 million under the Equal Pay Act.Prominent US women’s team star Megan Rapinoe said after learning of the court’s decision that the battle is not over.“We will never stop fighting for EQUALITY,” she wrote on Twitter.A spokeswoman for the players reacted with dismay following Friday’s ruling.“We are shocked and disappointed with today’s decision, but we will not give up our hard work for equal pay,” spokeswoman Molly Levinson said.“We are confident in our case and steadfast in our commitment to ensuring that girls and women who play this sport will not be valued as lesser just because of their gender.“We have learned that there are tremendous obstacles to change; we know that it takes bravery and courage and perseverance to stand up to them.”USSF said Friday night it would continue to work with the women’s program to grow the game in the United States.“We look forward to working with the Women’s National Team to chart a positive path forward and to grow the game both here at home and around the world,” it said.“We are committed to continuing that work to ensure our Women’s National Team remains the best in the world.”The increasingly acrimonious lawsuit had taken a dramatic turn in March when a filing by lawyers for the federation argued that US men’s team players required a “higher level of skill-based on speed and strength” than the women.The filing triggered outrage amongst the women’s players while influential sponsors such as Coca-Cola voiced disgust at the remarks.USSF President Carlos Cordeiro later resigned following the uproar, with Rapinoe accusing the USSF of “blatant sexism” in its legal filings.The US women, who clinched back-to-back World Cup wins with victory at last year’s finals in France, had based their claim for back pay in the disparities between prize money distributed by FIFA at the men’s and women’s World Cups.Germany’s men won $35 million for their victory in the 2014 World Cup while France earned $38 million after triumphing in Russia in 2018.The United States women, victors in the 2015 and 2019 World Cups, earned total prize money of $6 million over the two tournaments.The USSF argued in court that between the years 2015-2019, the women actually were paid more money than the men on both a cumulative and an average per game basis.During that period the women’s national team received $24 million and an average of $220,747 per game while the men’s team received payments of $18 million and $212,639 per game.Under the current CBA, which was signed in 2017, more than half the women’s team players receive an annual base salary of $167,000."
Web Desk,PCB’s legal adviser slaps Rs10m defamation suit on Shoaib Akhtar,2020-04-29,"Pakistan Cricket Board’s (PCB) legal adviser Tafazzul Rizvi filed a Rs10 million defamation lawsuit against former fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar on Wednesday after the Rawalpindi Express described him as “an inept person of highest order’ and made other serious allegations towards him as well.Akhtar, in a video on his YouTube channel a day ago, had ripped apart the PCB and its legal team, especially Rizvi, accusing him of profiteering by creating protracted legal wrangles between the board and its players.“The remarks given by Shoaib Akhtar has affected my goodwill. He said false things about me on social media. His remarks were seen and heard abroad as well. Therefore, I decided to take legal action against him,” Rizvi said.The PCB advisor said that he will take action against Akhtar outside of Pakistan, too, adding that he has also “submitted a criminal complaint to the Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) under the cybercrime act”.The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) expressed “disappointment with Akhter’s outburst and termed it ‘highly disrespectful’”. The PCB also clarified that the legal notice sent to him does not involve the board’s backing – yet.“The PCB is disappointed with Shoaib Akhtar’s poor choice of words while publicly commenting about the PCB’s legal department and its legal advisor,” the board said in a press release after Rizvi filed the suit against him.The PCB, which was also allegedly accused of “lending cover and condoning match-fixers” by the fiery former fast bowler, further said: “The language used by Shoaib Akhtar was highly inappropriate and disrespectful, and cannot be condoned in any civilised society.”The board, however, said that the lawsuit filed against Akhtar does not have PCB as a plaintiff, although that could change, it hinted.“The PCB’s legal advisor, Mr Taffazul Rizvi, in his own discretion, has initiated defamation and criminal proceedings against Shoaib Akhtar, while the PCB too reserves its rights,” the press release added."
Web Desk,La Liga set for individual training return on May 4,2020-04-29,"BARCELONA: Spain’s professional athletes including La Liga players can restart basic training from May 4, the country’s government announced on Tuesday.The Spanish top-flight has been on hold since March 12 due to the coronavirus pandemic.Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said the decision was the first move in lifting lockdown measures which will be done in four stages across two months.“The first phase, or phase 0, is the preparation to transition phase or the de-escalation phase, which we are already in,” Sanchez said.“In the best-case scenario, this de-escalation phase will take a minimum of six weeks and the maximum duration we want to see is eight weeks for the whole of Spain,” he added.Only later in later stages of the process will full sessions be able to take place.The announcement allows the league’s clubs to restart individual sessions with their squad members, a protocol agreed upon by La Liga and the Spanish Football Federation earlier this month.According to local reports players will have to undergo COVID-19 screening tests before returning to training.They will have to arrive at their club’s facilities already in kit, with gloves and masks, and only a maximum of six players can be on the pitch at the same time.COVID-19 has claimed nearly 24,000 lives in the country, behind the United States and Italy in mortality rates from the virus."
Web Desk,"Saleem Malik admits role in spot-fixing, offers cooperation against corruption",2020-04-27,"LAHORE: Former captain Salim Malik on Sunday apologised to the nation over match-fixing after long 19 years and said he was ready to reveal all the secrets linked to match-fixing due to which he was banned for life.“I am very sorry for what I had done 19 years ago. I am ready to extend unconditional cooperation to the International Cricket Council and the Pakistan Cricket Board in this regard,” he said here in a video message.Right-handed Malik, 57, was found guilty of match-fixing and was banned for life after a judicial inquiry in 2000 in a scandal that rocked the cricket-mad nation.Australian cricketers’ trio of Shane Warne, Mark Waugh and Tim May had accused him of offering them bribes to underperform during their tour of Pakistan in 1994-95.Malik’s ban was lifted by a Pakistani court in 2008 but the decision was not endorsed by the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) or the International Cricket Council (ICC).The former middle-order batsman, who played 103 Tests and 283 One-day Internationals in a career that stretched from 1982 to 1999, said he was also ready to cooperate with the anti-corruption unit of the ICC to provide them information in the match-fixing scandal.He said under the human rights laws, he also deserved that his case be considered on humanitarian grounds as he had suffered a lot due to the mistake he committed long ago and spent 19 years of life in wilderness being away from the game.“I did not do anything other than playing cricket which I started at the age of eight. I have played this game throughout my life, this is my bread and butter. Therefore, I appeal that under the laws of human rights I like other players [found guilty of fixing] be treated,” he said.Malik continued, “Whatever [relevant] laws of the ICC and PCB are there, I am ready to fully cooperate with them.”Malik, a member of Pakistan’s 1992 World Cup-winning squad, applied for the job of national team’s batting coach in 2012 and was also in contention for the head coaching job at the National Cricket Academy in 2008 but was overlooked on both occasions as the ICC did not endorse lifting of his life ban by the court.He said that other players guilty of the match- or spot-fixing had been allowed to return to sport and in the given circumstances he also deserved a second chance to re-start his cricket career, now this time in the role of a coach.“Mohammad Amir, Salman Butt, Mohammad Asif and Sharjeel Khan have been playing but I have been ignored and not considered to become a coach of players,” he said.Salman, Asif and Amir were banned for five years in a spot-fixing case in 2010, while Sharjeel was handed a similar sentence in 2017.Meanwhile, responding to Malik’s video statement, PCB legal adviser Tafazzul Rizvi said it was good to hear Malik offering his full and unconditional cooperation to them and the ICC.“For any player desirous of wanting to make a comeback the only way is to fully cooperate with his board under the anti-corruption laws,” Tafazzul said.“First of all Salim Malik should respond to the questions we had asked him in April, 2011 regarding the meetings he held in London.”Tafazzul further said the PCB had also sent Malik the transcripts of the meeting which were forward to them by the ICC Anti-Corruption Unit.“Malik should give an explanation of these meetings and then we can take his case forward.”"
Web Desk,On This Day: When Shoaib Akhtar broke the 100mph barrier,2020-04-27,"18 years ago today pace legend Shoaib Akhtar became the first bowler in cricket history to break the 100 mph barrier during an ODI match against New Zealand in Lahore.The moment came on April 27, 2002, in the third and final ODI of a three-match series which Pakistan had already won by winning the first two matches. Craig McMillan faced the thunderbolt from the Rawalpindi Express which was clocked at 100.04 mph or 161 kph – the fastest ever in an international match.The International Cricket Council (ICC) did not recognise the feat as the speed gun used for the match lacked a standardised measuring tool and also it was supplied by a sponsor.The refusal led to Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) releasing a statement, which said: “According to the speed gun operated in the ground by a sponsor, Shoaib Akhtar bowled a delivery at a speed off 161 kph during the 3rd ODI between Pakistan and New Zealand at Gaddafi Stadium, Lahore.”But a year later, Akhtar would remove any doubt and become the official holder of cricket’s fastest delivery across formats. And he chose the ODI World Cup stage to repeat the feat.Against England at Newlands Stadium in Cape Town, Akhtar’s sixth delivery of the 5th over to Nick Night was clocked at 161.3 kph or 100.2 mph – an improvement over what he had managed the preceding year.The delivery completed a maiden over bowled at England’s Nick Knight in what was the fastest recorded over in history. Shoaib’s second over recorded speeds of 153.3 kph, 158.4 kph, 158.5 kph, 157.4 kph, 159.5 kph, 161.3 kph with an average of 158.06 kph."
Web Desk,PCB bans Umar Akmal from all cricket for 3 years,2020-04-27,"The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) on Monday banned Umar Akmal from all cricket for three years.“Umar Akmal handed [a] three-year ban from all cricket by Chairman of the Disciplinary Panel Mr Justice (retired) Fazal-e-Miran Chauhan,” announced a tweet by the board.Umar Akmal handed three-year ban from all cricket by Chairman of the Disciplinary Panel Mr Justice (retired) Fazal-e-Miran Chauhan. — PCB Media (@TheRealPCBMedia) April 27, 2020Earlier on February 20, PCB had suspended Akmal with immediate effect.Akmal had not requested for a hearing before the Anti-Corruption Tribunal after he was charged for two breaches of Article 2.4.4 of the PCB’s Anti-Corruption Code in two unrelated incidents.He was also sidelined from the PSL immediately barring him from playing for Quetta Gladiators.Article 2.4.4 of the code reads: “Failing to disclose to the PCB vigilance and security department (without unnecessary delay) full details of any approaches or invitations received by the participant to engage in corrupt conduct under this Anti-Corruption Code”.In 2018, Akmal had told a media outlet that he was approached by bookmakers during the 2015 World Cup to leave two balls for $200,000.That offer, he had said, was just one of many he had been approached with over the years.“I had got an offer during the World Cup to leave two balls alone and they were willing to pay me $200,000 for that,” Akmal had said.“It was our first match against India in the 2015 World Cup […] in fact, every match I play against India, they offer me money to make some excuse and opt out of the game. But I have told those people that I am very sincere about playing for Pakistan and to not talk to me on this topic ever again,” he had said."
Web Desk,Nadal says he’s ‘very pessimistic’ about return of tennis,2020-04-27,"MADRID: Rafael Nadal said on Sunday that he was “very pessimistic” over a full resumption of the professional tennis circuit which has been halted by the coronavirus pandemic. “From my point of view, I’m very pessimistic that the circuit can resume normal activity,” said the world number two in a virtual chat origanized by the Spanish Federation of Tennis (RFET) involving the team that won last year’s Davis Cup.“In tennis, you need to travel every week, stay in hotels, go to different countries,” Nadal said. “Even if it we play without an audience, to organise any event you need a lot of people involved, which cannot be ignored. At an international level, I see a serious problem.”Nadal said he hoped that restrictions can be relaxed gradually, but added that he was aware that the global health situation is serious.“We have had a very tough month and a half, with many irreparable losses as well as others that are less important that will still bring great suffering to society, I hope only for a few months, at the economic level,” he said. “Many people are going to lose their jobs.”“These are sad moments when you see so many people dying,” he said.Nadal had already told Spanish radio that he thought it would be “difficult” to stage one of the majors “in the short or medium term.”Nadal has been working with his friend Pau Gasol, the Spanish basketball player, to raise funds in the fight the coronavirus.Along with other leading tennis players such as Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic, Nadal is one of the promoters of a plan to create a fund to help low-ranked players who are suffering financially."
Web Desk,Sana Mir announces retirement from international cricket,2020-04-25,"“The last few months have provided me with an opportunity to contemplate. I feel it is the right time for me to move on. I believe I have contributed to the best of my ability for my country and the sport,” she said in a statement published by the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB).“During my cricket journey, I have met and built strong friendships and bonding with some amazing cricketers in women’s cricket. Listening about their stories and philosophies have not only made me a tougher and stronger athlete but have also taught me great things about life, which are beyond yourself or the sport or winning and losing,” she said.“When I reflect on my debut, it gives me great satisfaction that I have been part of the process that has eventually resulted in a packed-to-capacity Lord’s for the ICC Women’s World Cup 2017 final, something that was further boosted by a record 87,000 spectators for the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup 2020 final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. These are great success stories for women’s cricket.”"
Web Desk,"Eales, ‘gobsmacked’ Shaw shun ex-captains’ Rugby Australia rebuke",2020-04-23,"Four former Wallabies captains, including double World Cup winner John Eales, have spoken out against a call by their counterparts to overhaul the leadership of Rugby Australia, domestic media reported Thursday. A letter — reportedly signed by 11 Wallabies skippers, including Nick Farr-Jones, George Gregan and Phil Kearns — was circulated earlier this week saying the governing body was in crisis and the game had “lost its way”.But on Thursday one signatory, Michael Lynagh, said told The Australian he had asked for his name to be removed from the letter as he had not been fully briefed on its contents.“This is not the way I do things and I have withdrawn from the whole thing,” he told the newspaper.“It doesn’t mean I don’t support the change but I had quite a few questions about what they were proposing.“(RA) now have a new chairman and three new board members. They have got to be allowed to implement change.”The Sydney Morning Herald reported that Wallabies great Eales, who won the Rugby World Cups in the 1991 and led the side to a second win in 1999, joined with former Test captain Mark Loane and ex-Rugby Australia president Tony Shaw to support current interim chair Paul McLean.“We all recognise that rugby is going through a very difficult period,” Eales told the newspaper.“I did not sign the letter because I felt it better to act on concerns directly, as a group, with the chairman, as he is already enacting considerable change.‘Why put it in public?’“What I know is that there are good people across all levels of rugby working hard to solve complex problems.”Shaw, who told the SMH he had not been approached to sign the letter, said its release had left him “gobsmacked”.“Why put it in the public domain when you have a chairman, who was a captain, just like you, who’s done every job in rugby known to man — from player, captain, coach, administrator and president — and worked his butt off to work through the pandemic fallout in a short time frame,” he said.Australia are languishing seventh in the world rugby rankings and the game Down Under faces fierce competition from other sports that are increasingly gaining traction with wider audiences.Rugby Australia were already suffering financially before the COVID-19 crisis after agreeing a reported multi-million dollar settlement with star try-scorer Israel Folau who was sacked over homophobic comments.In their letter, the captains criticised the financial management of Rugby Australia and the lack of a viable long-term commercial plan.The comments have increased pressure on current chief executive Raelene Castle, who is facing persistent rumors that she may be axed.Rugby Australia said it “values the opinions” of the former captains and invited them to take part in the “current process to review the rugby landscape”."
Web Desk,South Korea women’s golf resumption draws world top-10 players: report,2020-04-21,"SEOUL: Professional women’s golf will resume in South Korea next month after a coronavirus hiatus, with a report Tuesday saying two of the world’s top 10 would seize the chance to return to competition. South Korea dominates the women’s game globally, with its best players gravitating towards the lucrative US-based LPGA tour, where they occupy three of the top six ranking spots and eight of the top 20.But sport events around the world have been put on hold as the novel coronavirus has swept the globe with total cases nearing 2.5 million.South Korea once had the largest confirmed cases outside China but appears to have brought the outbreak under control with a huge “trace, test and treat” strategy.And government officials have said that outdoor sports events will now be allowed, with restrictions.The Korea Ladies Professional Golf Association (KLPGA) Championship is scheduled to be played over four days from May 14 in Yangju, east of Seoul.World number six Kim Sei-young and 10th-ranked Lee Jeong-eun will be part of the 144-strong field, Yonhap news agency reported.The tournament prize fund totals 2.3 billion won (US$1.8 million) with 160 million won for the winner.KLPGA officials were still discussing whether spectators would be allowed on the course, a representative told AFP, declining to confirm Kim or Lee’s participation.The organisers “put the utmost priority on the safety of athletes and fans” and the details of the event will depend on the course of the outbreak, the KLPGA said in a statement.South Korea reported nine new cases on Monday — its fourth consecutive day of less than 20 new infections — taking the national total to 10,683."
Web Desk,Report highlights growing concern of depression among footballers,2020-04-20,"PARIS: Increasing numbers of professional footballers are struggling with anxiety and depression having been forced out of action with the sport suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic, according to a report by global players’ union FIFPro released on Monday.FIFPro surveyed 1,602 players across 16 countries, including England, Scotland, France, Australia and the United States, with 468 female players featured in the study.It found that 13 percent of male players surveyed, and 22 percent of female players, reported symptoms of depression. Close to one in five of both male and female players reported symptoms of anxiety.“In football, suddenly young men and women athletes are having to cope with social isolation, a suspension of their working lives and doubts about their future,” said Vincent Gouttebarge, a French former player who is FIFPro’s chief medical officer.While many countries have gone into strict lockdowns in attempts to slow the spread of Covid-19, Gouttebarge pointed out that many professional footballers live in foreign countries without family, and in many cases suffer added anxiety because of being on short-term contracts.The FIFPro survey follows an identical study undertaken in December and January which found that the percentage of players reporting symptoms of depression were much lower — just 11 percent among females and six percent among males — although it involved only 307 players.“In us performing the study and publishing these results we are very conscious that what we are communicating here is a reflection of a problem in broader society that affects many more people than our members,” said FIFPro’s General Secretary, Jonas Baer-Hoffmann.“I think the emphasis should be more on understanding that football players in general are actually more similar to average society than most people think.”Footballers in many countries have been confined to their homes with competitions having been suspended since mid-March.Discussions are ongoing among federations and governing bodies about how and when the season can resume, with Europe’s biggest leagues hopeful of starting again soon with matches behind closed doors.However, Baer-Hoffmann sounded a note of caution and dismissed suggestions that the study provided any argument for rushing back onto the field.“If we were to pressure players back in an environment where they may feel their safety is being put in danger, then it would rather add to their anxiety and concern,” he said."
Web Desk,Japan virus expert ‘pessimistic’ Olympics can be held in 2021,2020-04-20,"TOKYO: A Japanese expert who has criticised the country’s response to the coronavirus warned Monday that he is “pessimistic” that the postponed Olympics can be held even in 2021. “To be honest with you I don’t think the Olympics is likely to be held next year,” said Kentaro Iwata, a professor of infectious diseases at Kobe University.Japan and the International Olympic Committee (IOC) agreed last month to delay the Tokyo 2020 Games until July 2021, after pressure from athletes and sports federations.But in recent days, as the coronavirus pandemic continues to spread worldwide, there have been questions about whether even a year-long delay will be sufficient.“Holding (the) Olympics needs two conditions, one: controlling COVID-19 in Japan and (two) controlling COVID-19 everywhere, because you have to invite the athletes and the audience from all over the world,” Iwata told journalists at a press briefing. “Japan might be able to control this disease by next summer, I wish we could, but I don’t think that would happen everywhere on Earth, so in this regard, I’m very pessimistic about holding the Olympics Games next summer.”Iwata said he could only see the Games being held next year if they were significantly altered, “such as no audience, or very limited participation”.Iwata hit the headlines earlier this year for his public criticism of Japan’s handling of the coronavirus-wracked Diamond Princess cruise ship that docked off the country’s coast.Japanese officials opted to carry out an on-ship quarantine, but more than 700 people on board ended up contracting the virus, and 13 died.The decision to postpone the Olympics is unprecedented in peacetime and followed a wave of complaints from athletes facing travel bans and lockdowns.The postponement is a huge undertaking, but organisers have insisted they are working towards the new opening date despite ongoing uncertainty about when the pandemic will be over.There is “no Plan B”, Tokyo 2020 spokesman Masa Takaya told reporters at an online briefing on last week."
Web Desk,PCB donates Rs10mn to PM’s coronavirus relief fund,2020-04-18,"LAHORE: The Pakistan Cricket Board (PBC) has deposited over Rs10 million in Prime Minister’s coronavirus relief fund to help the government fight the pandemic, the board announced on Saturday.PCB donates in excess of PKR10million in PM’s relief fundhttps://t.co/IUsr87mGth pic.twitter.com/FwhRlKoAQ9 — PCB Media (@TheRealPCBMedia) April 18, 2020The PCB had announced on March 25 that the centrally contracted players will make a collective contribution in the emergency relief fund, while the board will separately match the contribution of its staff.According to a press release, PCB Chairman Ehsan Mani said: “I want to thank all the centrally contracted players and the PCB staff for their generous contributions in the Prime Minister’s Covid-19 Pandemic Relief Fund. Cricket has once again demonstrated that it values, respects and cares for its fans, followers and supporters, and will continue to do so.”“In these difficult times, we pray for the health and safety of our paramedics and other frontline fighters, and hope the government will succeed in its endeavours in overcoming this pandemic,” the statement added.The statement also quoted Minister for Inter-Provincial Coordination Dr Fehmida Mirza as saying: “The PCB has been one of the leading organisations, which has helped and supported the government by spreading public service messages to create awareness about this pandemic.”“They have now gone an extra yard by making this generous donation, which will be used to support our frontline fighters as well as the underprivileged. On behalf of the government, I thank the PCB and hope they will continue to use their brand and reach so that we can collectively achieve our objectives.”"
Web Desk,England’s Moeen ready to return to Tests despite ‘scapegoat’ past,2020-04-18,"LONDON: Moeen Ali says he is ready to return to Test action for England after a self-imposed exile from the red-ball game despite having been made to feel like “a scapegoat” in the past. All-rounder Moeen missed the Test matches during England’s winter tours of New Zealand and South Africa after taking a spell away from the longest format of the game.The 32-year-old, who continued to play limited-overs matches for England, has been reflecting on his absence during the coronavirus lockdown and suggested he would be willing to return to Tests if selected when cricket eventually resumes.“I think I’d probably be ready (to play Test cricket) now, to be honest. Clearly, I would have to be playing well and win a spot back on merit,” Moeen told the Guardian.“But in terms of being available – and obviously I’m speaking hypothetically – if there was a Test match tomorrow and I got the call, I’d say ‘yes’.“We’re all missing cricket right now and coronavirus makes you realise what you love. It could take out the whole summer and that would be a big thing.”Moeen was dropped after the first Test against Australia last year and admitted to feeling like a scapegoat.He has played 60 Tests for England, scoring five centuries and taking 181 wickets.“When you find yourself surrounded by a few negative comments, somehow it’s all you can focus on. You have to be mentally stronger and filter more of it out,” Moeen said.“It’s almost been a case of forgiving anyone who has ever said anything I didn’t like and now looking to start afresh when we get back playing.“I may have felt a scapegoat at times in the past but I’m over it now. It’s time to move on.”"
Web Desk,PCB to bid for ICC events with Emirates Cricket Board: Ehsan Mani,2020-04-16,"LAHORE: The PCB is planning to team up with the Emirates Cricket Board (ECB) to bid for ICC events in the cycle that runs from 2023 to 2031. According to Ehsan Mani, the PCB chairman, the Pakistan board intends to bid for five to six major events, aiming to win at least two of those.The ICC had invited expressions of interest from its Member nations until March 15 for 20 global events that will be held in the 2023-2031 cycle but due to the coronavirus pandemic the meetings have been deferred indefinitely. Mani, meanwhile, has opted to initiate discussions with the ECB about the possibility of making joint bids and co-hosting events with a view to increasing the chances of winning the bids.Since becoming an affiliated member of the ICC in 1952, Pakistan have hosted two global cricket events: the 1987 and 1996 World Cups. They were supposed to host the 2008 Champions Trophy (which was later postponed and staged in South Africa) and the 2011 ODI World Cup but lost the hosting rights as several nations refused to tour Pakistan over security concerns in the wake of rising terrorist attacks in the country.“It is very important for Pakistan cricket and its development that some of the ICC events are played in Pakistan,” Mani said in a PCB podcast. “We intend to make a very serious expression of our interest on this matter and we will be getting full government support as well. The ICC delegation did met with Dr Fahmida Mirza, the Minister for Inter-Provincial Coordination who also handles sports in the country, and they [the ICC] got a very positive impression [of our intent and ability to host global events].“We had expressed an interest to host five to six events and, frankly, it is likely we won’t be getting more than one or two. But we also thought out of the box to bid jointly with another country. I have already begun speaking with the Emirates Cricket Board for a team-up to increase the chances of hosting some of it together but, again, it needs cooperation. There are a few events with 16 games and then there are events with 30-40 games, so depending on the scale, the workload can be divided between us.”For the best part of the decade following the terrorist attack on Sri Lanka’s team bus in March 2009, international cricket on Pakistani soil remained an impossibility, with the PCB also stripped of hosting rights to ICC events. But in May 2015, the PCB convinced Zimbabwe to visit for a short limited-overs series after guaranteeing them a USD 500,000 pay package. Two years later, the final of the 2017 Pakistan Super League (PSL) was held in Lahore, with an eight-member overseas contingent taking part in the high-octane clash. Since then, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, West Indies, and a World XI side have toured Pakistan for international matches across formats and the PSL, too, has made a gradual comeback in its entirety.“We have demonstrated through the PSL that Pakistan has what it takes to hold international games at a large scale,” Mani said. “Those 30 games were free of any untoward incidents; they were well run despite some logistical challenges, which we were able to overcome to send the message loud and clear that we have the ability to stage big matches. It’s premature to tell which events we would be bidding for but we have indicated to the ICC about our interest across the board: from youth cricket to the senior World Cups. We have full confidence in our logistic capability and infrastructure to hold them.“But there are other countries, too, who are likely to present a strong case for their bids. But unfortunately, when the “Big Three” (India, Australia, and England) emerged as a combined force and Pakistan and a few other boards couldn’t stop that from happening, the ICC had distributed all major events between them. But this won’t happen this time around. All the major broadcast markets in the world for the ICC to earn its revenue from is in the South-Asian region and Pakistan is well placed time-zone-wise as well. So, our case is really quite strong.”"
Web Desk,Bookies seek winning formula ‘to survive’ coronavirus slump,2020-04-16,"BELGIUM: Bookmakers at an “emergency summit” this month will be trying to find a way to “survive the slump” triggered by the coronavirus pandemic. Racing and football, bookmakers’ two key sources of revenue, have come to a standstill across Europe since mid-March with betting shops also closing due to British Government social distancing rules.Any industry that had to suddenly withdraw its main product from the market would suffer a huge hit, Andrew McCarron, managing director of Sports Betting Community (SBC) told AFP.The SBC Digital Summit that runs from April 27 to May 1, will feature 140 speakers including more than 20 CEOs of major bookmakers from across Europe, the United States and Latin America.“It is probably fair to describe this as an ’emergency summit’, as the central theme across all five days is how to survive the slump and bounce back once conditions allow the normal business to resume,” McCarron said.“CEOs from many leading operators around the world are taking part so we’ll definitely see a lot of good ideas shared.“Given the unique circumstances, I think there’ll also be discussions about how companies can work together for the long-term good of the wider industry and its customers.”The 43-year-old Englishman says the heart has been ripped out of the UK sporting calendar showpiece events — The Grand National, Wimbledon and The British Open all cancelled — taking with it a huge source of revenue for bookmakers.“Any business that is suddenly forced to remove its main product from sale is going to have a major problem, and that is the situation bookmakers find themselves in,” he said.“UK punters stake around £250 million ($312 million) on the Grand National alone, and that kind of income is impossible to replace.”McCarron said online firms were trying to cut their cloth accordingly and offer different things to bet on.“Online sportsbooks have been proactive in trying to replace the traditional sporting calendar with things like virtual sports, esports betting and, the surprise hit, markets on table tennis tournaments,” he said.‘Really suffering’However, he says that punters largely are creatures of habit so whilst the online bookmakers can be credited with being innovative the rewards go nowhere near replacing the losses in income.“While virtuals and esports betting are growing in popularity, fewer people are prepared to bet on events they have little knowledge of and no emotional attachment to,” he said.“The alternatives can’t make up for the loss of the casual customers who have a weekly football accumulator, a couple of bets on Saturday afternoon’s televised racing or a punt on the weekend’s big fight.”McCarron says the example of GVC Holdings — which owns bookmakers Corals and Ladbrokes — reflects the stark reality of life for the gambling industry at the moment.“GVC Holdings estimates that the crisis will cost it £50million a month, and that’s taking into account what it described as a programme of ‘mitigating actions’,” he said.“Even for a financially robust business — one that also has revenue streams from online casino and poker — that kind of hit is difficult to sustain for a prolonged period.”For the retail outlets, a lot will depend on what is offered after the pandemic is over.“Their future depends not only on the return of sport, but also on what kind of economic stimulus will be available post-outbreak,” he said.Bookmakers are not high on the list of professions the public would sympathise with over their suffering but McCarron thinks they deserve some.“It is slightly unfair,” he said of the lack of sympathy.“In the UK alone, the gambling industry employs more than 100,000 people, has 10,000 premises and contributes £2.9 billion a year to the taxman just in gambling duties.“Just this month the bookmakers got together over the Virtual Grand National and raised £2.6 million for NHS charities at a time when their businesses were really suffering.“Betting is a form of entertainment enjoyed by millions of people.“The industry has its problems, but it also has plenty of positive aspects as well.”"
Web Desk,IPL ‘postponed indefinitely’ as India extends lockdown,2020-04-15,"MUMBAI: The Indian Premier League, the world’s richest cricket tournament, has been indefinitely postponed because of the coronavirus pandemic, a team official told AFP Wednesday.Though India’s cricket board made no official announcement, the further delay of the Twenty20 tournament, which draws top players from around the world, was inevitable after the government extended a three-week lockdown until at least May 3.In line with other sports events worldwide, the IPL had already been pushed back from its original start date of March 29 to April 15.“Yes, they have informed us that the IPL stands suspended for the moment,” a team official told AFP on condition of anonymity.“However it is said that they will find a window in the later end of the year to do it.”Media reports said all eight IPL teams were told Wednesday of the new postponement. The reports said the BCCI may aim for a tournament in September-October.Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president Sourav Ganguly earlier sought to dampen hopes of a quick resumption of sport.“Practically speaking, when life has come to a standstill everywhere in the world, where does sport have a future in this?” he said at the weekend.With the global shutdown preventing players from travelling and Indian restrictions ruling out new visas, the tournament cannot be held in coming weeks.Former India star VVS Laxman said the IPL should be played before the Twenty20 World Cup, which is scheduled to be held in Australia in October and November.“I think some of the cricket boards will be encouraging the fact that IPL is a big tournament, and everyone acknowledges that,” Laxman, an advisor to the Sunrisers Hyderabad team, told Indian broadcaster Star Sports.“And just before the World Cup it will set the tone for a hectic cricket season. But I just hope that everything is normal, and no one is in danger. And once that happens, I am sure the IPL should kick off the cricket calendar.”Cricketers turned pundits, including England’s Kevin Pietersen, have suggested the glitzy tournament be shortened from its normal eight-week duration and played behind closed doors.The league is a huge revenue-earner for the BCCI and is estimated to generate more than $11 billion a year for the Indian economy.The participation of the world’s top cricketers has attracted big money, such as Chinese mobile phone maker Vivo putting up $330 million to be the league’s top sponsor for 2018-2022.Australian pace bowler Pat Cummins was to be the most expensive overseas star this year with Kolkata Knight Riders agreeing a $2.17 million fee for his services in December."
Web Desk,IPL ‘postponed indefinitely’ as India extends lockdown,2020-04-15,"MUMBAI: The Indian Premier League, the world’s richest cricket tournament, has been indefinitely postponed because of the coronavirus pandemic, a team official told AFP Wednesday.Though India’s cricket board made no official announcement, the further delay of the Twenty20 tournament, which draws top players from around the world, was inevitable after the government extended a three-week lockdown until at least May 3.In line with other sports events worldwide, the IPL had already been pushed back from its original start date of March 29 to April 15.“Yes, they have informed us that the IPL stands suspended for the moment,” a team official told AFP on condition of anonymity.“However it is said that they will find a window in the later end of the year to do it.”Media reports said all eight IPL teams were told Wednesday of the new postponement. The reports said the BCCI may aim for a tournament in September-October.Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president Sourav Ganguly earlier sought to dampen hopes of a quick resumption of sport.“Practically speaking, when life has come to a standstill everywhere in the world, where does sport have a future in this?” he said at the weekend.With the global shutdown preventing players from travelling and Indian restrictions ruling out new visas, the tournament cannot be held in coming weeks.Former India star VVS Laxman said the IPL should be played before the Twenty20 World Cup, which is scheduled to be held in Australia in October and November.“I think some of the cricket boards will be encouraging the fact that IPL is a big tournament, and everyone acknowledges that,” Laxman, an advisor to the Sunrisers Hyderabad team, told Indian broadcaster Star Sports.“And just before the World Cup it will set the tone for a hectic cricket season. But I just hope that everything is normal, and no one is in danger. And once that happens, I am sure the IPL should kick off the cricket calendar.”Cricketers turned pundits, including England’s Kevin Pietersen, have suggested the glitzy tournament be shortened from its normal eight-week duration and played behind closed doors.The league is a huge revenue-earner for the BCCI and is estimated to generate more than $11 billion a year for the Indian economy.The participation of the world’s top cricketers has attracted big money, such as Chinese mobile phone maker Vivo putting up $330 million to be the league’s top sponsor for 2018-2022.Australian pace bowler Pat Cummins was to be the most expensive overseas star this year with Kolkata Knight Riders agreeing a $2.17 million fee for his services in December."
Web Desk,"Southern hemisphere considers Tests, Super Rugby side-by-side",2020-04-15,"LONDON: The southern hemisphere’s Super Rugby competition and the Rugby Championship could be played simultaneously to cram in as many fixtures as possible when sport resumes after the coronavirus suspension, SANZAAR boss Andy Marinos suggested. Marinos said the governing body was “hell-bent” on continuing Super Rugby in some form this year and also wanted the Rugby Championship to proceed, adding that the season could be extended until December.He said SANZAAR (South Africa, New Zealand, Australia and Argentina Rugby) was exploring the prospect of playing the competitions concurrently, even though Super Rugby teams would be weakened by the loss of their Test stars.“Could you be playing the Rugby Championship at the same time as a domestic competition?” Marinos told New Zealand’s Newshub late Tuesday.“It’s not trying to rubbish one for the other, it’s how do we get a sensible solution in what may be a restricted time frame?”Super Rugby was originally scheduled to end in June with the four-nation Rugby Championship being played in August and September.Marinos said the Rugby Championship could be played in a single country, with players and officials confined to a competition-wide “bubble” in a similar arrangement to that proposed by Australia’s National Rugby League (NRL).“Logic would suggest if there is an ability to create — like what we’ve seen with the NRL — around a bubble, if it’s all in one location, it seems a bit easier,” he said.“At this point in time, we’d be silly to rule out anything.”He said if Super Rugby were to resume, travel restrictions would mean changes to the usual border-hopping format involving 15 teams from five nationsInstead, there would be three “domestic” competitions of five teams apiece in New Zealand, Australia and South Africa, with Argentina’s Jaguares playing in Africa and Japan’s Sunwolves based in Australia.Marinos said matches could be played until the end of the year if necessary.“We have a calendar that can now go up until the end of December and our players are now on an extended period of rest, so we have till the end of 2020 to configure something,” he said.Meanwhile, Rugby Australia reported “good progress” in talks with the players’ association over the need for pay cuts because of the coronavirus crisis.The governing body has reportedly asked players to take a 65 percent cut over the next three months.The matter is yet to be resolved but Rugby Australia chief executive Raelene Castle said talks held on Tuesday had been constructive.“Both parties appreciate what is at stake and the players recognise their role and shared responsibility in securing the future and helping the game navigate through this unprecedented challenge,” she said in a statement."
Web Desk,More chances of snowfall in Lahore than Indo-Pak cricket series: Gavaskar,2020-04-14,"Former Indian batsman Sunil Gavaskar has said that there are more chances of snowfall in Lahore than a bilateral series between arch-rivals India and Pakistan in near future.While speaking with former Pakistan batsman Ramiz Raja in a YouTube video uploaded on Monday, Gavaskar said that we can only expect the two teams to come up against each other in International Cricket Council (ICC) events.“There are more chances of snowfall in Lahore than bilateral series between India and Pakistan,” Gavaskar said. “Both teams will keep on meeting in World Cups and ICC tournaments, but a series between them seem unlikely right now.”Last week, Pakistan’s former pacer Shoaib Akhtar had proposed a three-match series to raise funds to help the governments of India and Pakistan to fight the coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak that has brought the entire globe to a standstill.“In this time of crisis, I want to propose a three-match series in which for the first time, the people of neither country would be upset at the outcome of the games,” Akhtar had said.“If Virat scores a hundred, we will be happy and if Babar Azam scores a hundred, you will be happy. Both teams will be winners irrespective of whatever happens on the field. You are bound to get massive viewership for the games. For the first time, both countries will play for each other. And whatever funds are generated through this can be donated equally to the government of India and Pakistan to fight this pandemic.”However, captain of India’s triumphant 1983 World Cup side, Kapil Dev, had dismissed the proposal.“India does not need money today so such a series should not be held. And why put our cricketers’ life in danger? So sit back and relax at home,” Dev had said.“Why take the risk of endangering even one life? There’s no need for anyone to give such suggestions. The authorities are trying their best to make people understand the importance of staying home. It’s easy to say things but organising such an event is extremely difficult,” Dev had added."
Web Desk,"One lap too many: Motorsport icon and legend Stirling Moss dies, aged 90",2020-04-13,"LONDON: Stirling Moss, widely-regarded as the greatest motor racing driver never to win the world title, has died aged 90 following a long illness.“It was one lap too many,” his wife Susie Moss told Britain’s Press Association on Sunday.“He just closed his eyes.”Tributes flooded in from the world of motorsport and beyond to the gifted and revered driver who never won the Formula One title, finishing runner-up four times and third three times.“Today we say goodbye to Sir Stirling Moss, the racing legend,” reigning world champion Lewis Hamilton wrote on Instagram.“Two people from massively different times and backgrounds but we clicked and ultimately found that the love for racing we both shared made us comrades,” added the six-time world champion.Meanwhile, three-time world champion Jackie Stewart, who came into Grand Prix racing shortly after Moss’s injury-enforced retirement in the early 1960s, told the BBC: “I think he’s probably the best example of a racing driver there’s ever been.“He walked like a racing driver, he talked like a racing driver, he behaved like a racing driver should behave.”Former England striker Gary Lineker posted on Instagram: “Sir Stirling Moss has reached life’s checkered flag, and what a race he drove. Wonderful driver and a lovely man. RIP.”British media reported Moss had succumbed to a chest infection he caught in Singapore in December 2016 that saw him retire from public life two years later.There is no suggestion his death was linked to the coronavirus.In an era when it was common for drivers to race in different disciplines, Moss won 212 of the 529 races he entered over a 14-year career that started in 1948.His victories included the 1955 Mille Miglia, where he set a course record in the 1,000 mile event, which took place on public roads in Italy.RENOWNED SPORTSMANSHIPIn Formula One, Moss won 16 races, with his first victory coming in the 1955 British Grand Prix at Liverpool that saw him become the first British winner.Moss had the misfortune to compete in the same era as the great Argentine Juan Manuel Fangio, who won the F1 championship five times.His renowned sportsmanship cost Moss the 1958 title when he defended the conduct of British rival Mike Hawthorn following a spin at the Portuguese Grand Prix.Moss’s action helped spare Hawthorn a six-point penalty, with Hawthorn winning the title by a single point.“I had no hesitation in doing it,” Moss recalled. “I can’t see how this is open to debate. The fact that he was my only rival in the championship didn’t come into my thinking. Absolutely not.”His top-level career in motorsport came to an end in 1962 following a crash at the Goodwood track in Sussex, southern England, that left Moss in a coma for a month and partially paralysed for six months.But such was the enduring fame of the debonair driver that, for decades afterwards, the rhetorical phrase “Who do you think you are, Stirling Moss?” was supposedly the standard question all British policemen asked speeding motorists.“Yes a policeman did once ask me,” Moss told the Daily Telegraph in a 2012 interview.“But I couldn’t work out if he was taking the mick (joking).”He was knighted in the New Year Honours list in 2000 for services to motor racing.For F1 pundit and former driver Martin Brundle, Moss was “a mighty racer and gentleman”.“He had a press on style on the track and in life,” Brundle posted on Twitter.“Remarkable man. Survived the most dangerous era of motorsport and died today aged 90. He had such great stories to tell, and it was a privilege to know him.”Former world heavyweight boxing champion Frank Bruno revealed that Moss had “privately supported me over many years”.“My thoughts are with his family and all that had the pleasure of knowing him”."
Web Desk,Montreal WTA tournament put off until 2021,2020-04-12,"MONTREAL: The Montreal WTA tournament, one of the key build-up events ahead of the US Open, was axed on Saturday and will not be played until 2021, officials said.The event, scheduled for August 7-16, had been in jeopardy after Quebec Province requested that all sporting and cultural events be cancelled through August 31 as a means of slowing the spread of the coronavirus.“As a result of the measures imposed by the Quebec government prohibiting holding events until August 31, the Rogers Cup in Montreal will postpone their event to 2021,” said a WTA statement.“The WTA reiterates that health and safety will always be the top priority. We understand this was a difficult decision and we look forward to being back in Montreal in 2021.”Tournament director Eugene Lapierre said the decision was made for them.“At the beginning of the COVID-19 crisis we were hoping that the situation would be resolved in time to be able to host our tournament as initially planned on the calendar.“It is thus with a heavy heart that we received this news, but we understand that this decision was necessary,” Lapierre said.“We will be working tirelessly in the coming months in order to make next year’s tournament a great celebration during which we will be able to celebrate the sport and enjoy each other’s company.”This is the latest blow to the tennis season which has been on ice for the last month.The French Open was postponed from its traditional May-June slot and rescheduled for September-October, just a week after the conclusion of the US Open.Wimbledon was cancelled for the first time since World War II, meaning that the earliest tennis can resume this year is July 13.“As it currently stands, the WTA Tour is suspended through July 12,” added Saturday’s statement.“We will continue to work with our tournament partners in evaluating when we will be able to get back on the court.“We do not foresee any further decisions until next month.”"
Web Desk,What cricket can teach us about surviving pandemics,2020-04-12,"MELBOURNE: The current testing times are demanding a lot of citizens round the world. I’ve learned that rules that apply to athletes prospering at sport are also helpful in living life.With the Covid-19 pandemic biting hard, citizens of all countries are being asked to display – among other attributes – patience, determination, and a bit of initiative. These are qualities essential to playing Test cricket at a high level. To highlight the point I’ve chosen two particularly influential innings.The first one is a Sachin Tendulkar masterpiece in Chennai in 1998. His brilliant second-innings 155 won the Test for India, but it wouldn’t have happened without the initiative displayed by Tendulkar in the lead-up to the series.Tendulkar asked tall former India allrounder Ravi Shastri how he should cope with champion Australian legspinner Shane Warne if he went round the wicket to bowl into the rough. Shastri’s reply was tinged with common sense. “Because of my long reach,” he replied, “I had a defensive antidote to Warne bowling in the rough, but you don’t. You’ll have to devise an attacking option to combat Warne bowling in the footmarks.”Following that sound advice, Tendulkar spent time at the MRF nets – where he deliberately scuffed an area outside leg stump – facing the wristspin of former Indian leggie Laxman Sivaramakrishnan.Fast forward to the fourth day of a tightly contested match where India are in trouble. Tendulkar, having been dismissed cheaply by Warne in the first innings, strides to the crease with his team two down and only 44 runs in front. The ball is spinning sharply and Warne, boosted by a four-wicket haul in the first innings, is confident.Tendulkar struggles to assert any authority early on and Warne, sensing his opponent is vulnerable, opts to come round the wicket. It’s rare that a Test match is so finely balanced on the fourth day with the champions of each team doing battle with each other. At that moment the result was on the line.Tendulkar’s determination and initiative were rewarded when he put his well-thought-out plan into operation. He immediately attacked deliveries pitching in the footmarks, and after a series of electrifying shots reached and cleared the boundary, Warne reluctantly went back over the wicket.Tendulkar had won the battle and India would go on to win the Test.The other innings that highlights patience and determination for me was played by Australian opener Ian Redpath at the MCG in 1976.It was late January, a steaming hot day with temperatures in excess of 38 C, and Redpath was charged with the job of subduing the West Indies pace attack.Redpath is around 184 cm and 70 kilos, so he didn’t have any excess weight to shed out in the middle of this steaming cauldron. His team-mates joked that it was easy for him to handle the West Indies bouncers because all he had to do was turn side on and they had virtually no target to hit.On this occasion Redpath swayed, ducked and bobbed his head to avoid the bouncers. He patiently picked off any loose deliveries and defied the West Indies pacemen for all but the last half-hour’s play. He scored a century and when he was finally dismissed in the shadow of stumps, he was red-faced and exhausted but he had done his job.Australia were eventually dismissed for a challenging 351. When Redpath scored a follow-up 70 in the second innings the target was too distant even for a strong West Indies batting line-up that included Clive Lloyd and Viv Richards. Australia duly completed the victory.Redpath claimed the Man-of-the Match award, but more importantly he won the respect of his team-mates for his patience and determination in trying circumstances.Combine Tendulkar’s initiative and determination with Redpath’s patient courage and you have some of the qualities required to survive this devastating pandemic."
Web Desk,Americans won’t attend sports events without vaccine: survey,2020-04-11,"NEW YORK: A large majority of Americans would be reluctant to attend future sporting events unless a vaccine for the coronavirus is developed, a survey by Seton Hall University has found.With every major sport across North America in shutdown for the past month since the COVID-19 crisis erupted, professional leagues are already exploring the practicalities of how and when competition may resume.But the results of the Seton Hall Sports Poll revealed deep unease among Americans about returning to stadiums before a vaccine had been developed.The survey of 762 people carried out between April 6-8 found that 72% would not feel safe attending a sports event without a vaccine. Among identified sports fans, 61% said they would not feel safe.Twelve percent of Americans polled said they would feel safe only if social distancing measures were in force while only 13% said they would feel safe.“This virus has the attention and respect of the nation,” said Rick Gentile, director of the Seton Hall Sports Poll, which is sponsored by the Sharkey Institute within the Stillman School of Business.“Those who identify as sports fans, at all levels of interest, line up closely with the general population in regard to their own safety and that of the players.”SUPPORT FOR SHUTDOWNWhile 40% of those surveyed believed no sports should be played through the remainder of 2020, some 76% said they would have the same level of interest if competitions resumed and were broadcast with no spectators present.Meanwhile, the survey revealed support for the decisions of professional sports leagues in the timing of their shutdown.Some 76% percent said the shutdown came at the right time.Eighty-four percent also backed the International Olympic Committee’s decision to postpone the 2020 Tokyo Olympics by one year.The United States has more COVID-19 cases than any other country, with more than 473,000 infections and over 17,800 fatalities.The National Basketball Association, National Hockey League and Major League Soccer all suspended their respective seasons in mid-March while Major League Baseball also postponed the start of the 2020 season.Golf, tennis, combat sports and motor racing have also been suspended because of the coronavirus.US President Donald Trump said on Saturday he hoped sports would resume “sooner rather than later” following a call with league commissioners but regional authorities have cast doubt on a swift reopening of stadiums.“I want fans back in the arenas… whenever we’re ready,” Trump said.However, California Governor Gavin Newsom, whose state is home to more than a dozen baseball, soccer, basketball, ice hockey and NFL teams, doubted stadiums would be open by September.“I’m not anticipating that happening in this state,” Newsom said."
Web Desk,"Year after glory, has virus doomed Tiger’s 18-major bid?",2020-04-11,"CALIFORNIA: One year after Tiger Woods reignited his chase for golf’s record 18 major wins with an amazing Masters victory, the coronavirus pandemic has become the latest obstacle to his historic chase. Woods would have been defending his 15th career major title and seeking a record-tying sixth green jacket this week at Augusta National had the deadly virus outbreak not halted sports worldwide.“Somehow it all came together for one magical week,” Woods said in February. “Just an amazing week.”But this year’s 84th Masters was postponed to November 12-15, the British Open was canceled, the US Open was delayed from June to September and the PGA Championship was moved from May to August.“There are a lot more important things in life than a golf tournament right now,” Woods tweeted last month. “We need to be safe, smart and do what is best for ourselves, our loved ones and our community.”Woods electrified Augusta last April with his first final-round comeback major triumph, his first major title since 2008 putting him three shy of the all-time record set by Jack Nicklaus.“He’s got me shaking in my boots,” Nicklaus said last April.Woods, 44, will have plenty of rest time for his surgically repaired back before a November Masters and even a bit more rest from the PGA Championship to the US Open if both are played as now scheduled.“I have to listen to my body and properly rest when needed,” Woods tweeted in March.But Father Time is a growing factor. Only eight men have won a major beyond their 44th birthday, none more than once.Nicklaus is the most recent with his 1986 Masters triumph at 46 while the late Julius Boros was the oldest major winner at 48 at the 1968 PGA. “One of the hardest things to accept as an older athlete is that you’re not going to be as consistent as you were at 23,” Woods said in July.“I’m going to have my hot weeks. I’m going to be there in contention with a chance to win and I will win. But there are times when I’m just not going to be there.”Tiger yearns for TokyoMeanwhile, a host of rivals are in their prime, including Rory McIlroy, who can complete a career Grand Slam at an autumn Masters.“I think this scheduling will be to Rory’s favor,” Nicklaus told Golf Channel. “He seems to play better in the fall. He has won the Tour Championship a couple times, played in (nearby) Atlanta, very similar conditions.”Woods is 11th in the world golf rankings, and just seventh among Americans. Only the top four will qualify for the US 2021 Tokyo Olympics squad.“Olympic gold medal would be a hell of a feat,” Woods has said. “First I need to qualify. It would be exciting if I got a chance to represent the United States in the Olympic Games.”In coming years, Woods would see courses besides Augusta National where he has won majors before, including the 2021 US Open at Torrey Pines, a layout where his eight titles include the 2008 US Open, and the British Open in 2022 at St. Andrews, where Woods has twice won the Claret Jug. His first chance to pass Boros as the oldest major winner could be the 2024 PGA Championship at Valhalla, where Woods won the 2000 PGA.Woods’s fifth Masters green jacket completed a fairy-tale comeback for the superstar who underwent spinal fusion surgery in April of 2017.“I could barely walk. I couldn’t sit. Couldn’t lay down. I really couldn’t do much of anything,” Woods said of the decision to have surgery. “I had the procedure on my back, which gave me a chance at having a normal life. Then all of a sudden, I realized I could actually swing a golf club again.”‘Took a lot out of me’But after his Masters win, Woods missed the cut at the PGA and British and was 21st at the US Open.“Getting myself into position to win the Masters, it took a lot out of me,” Woods acknowledged.By November, Woods was on form again, winning the Zozo Championship in Japan for his 82nd career US PGA Tour title, matching Sam Snead’s all-time record. In December, player-captain Woods led a US victory at the Presidents Cup in Australia. A month later he shared ninth at Torrey Pines.But he slid to 68th at Riviera in February in his most recent start, back pain preventing him from playing in the Players Championship, which was halted after 18 holes by virus concerns."
Web Desk,Waqar Younis urges PCB to prevent mass exodus of top talent from Test cricket,2020-04-08,"LAHORE: National bowling coach Waqar Younis has said that the absence of experienced quicks Mohammad Amir and Wahab Riaz during the Test series in Australia last year caused the team a “massive setback”.“Of course you can’t stop anyone or force anyone. But there should be a policy by the board,” Waqar said in a video conference with reporters.“If a star player suddenly leaves, or drops a format, it’s a massive setback for the team. You’re forced to fast-track rookies, which is a big problem and we faced it in absence of Amir and Wahab.“I’m not saying we’d have won in Australia with them, but we could have done better, benefiting from their experience.”Waqar felt Pakistan needed a bigger pool of fast bowlers to cope with the demand of limited-overs cricket and was optimistic he could help create one.“The way cricket has expanded, having four-five fast bowlers is not enough,” he said.“You probably need four-five mature bowlers for test cricket. But for the shorter formats, you need a bigger pool of bowlers, who can share the massive workload.“Naseem (Shah), Musa (Khan), Haris (Rauf), Dilbar (Hussain)… if we can harness them with Amir, Wahab and (Mohammad) Abbas, I think we can have a battery of 8-10 fast bowlers.“And once we have that, we’d never be affected by anyone quitting abruptly and can rotate them.“Bench strength is crucial. You need to create a pool, which even those on the bench are match-winners themselves.”"
Web Desk,Stokes crowned Wisden’s leading cricketer in the world,2020-04-08,"LONDON: Ben Stokes has ended Virat Kohli’s three-year reign as Wisden’s leading cricketer in the world after playing a starring role in England’s World Cup win last year.The 2020 Wisden Cricketers’ Almanack, published on Thursday, crowns the swashbuckling all-rounder as the sport’s pre-eminent player.He is the first England player to receive the honour since Andrew Flintoff in 2005.The 28-year-old won the man-of-the-match award in the World Cup final against New Zealand at Lord’s and then produced a remarkable match-winning innings of 135 not out in the third Ashes Test against Australia.“Ben Stokes pulled off the performance of a lifetime — twice in the space of a few weeks,” said Wisden editor Lawrence Booth.“First, with a mixture of outrageous talent and good fortune, he rescued England’s run-chase in the World Cup final, before helping to hit 15 off the super over.“Then, in the third Ashes Test at Headingley, he produced one of the great innings, smashing an unbeaten 135 to pinch a one-wicket win.“Against red ball or white, he was a force of nature.”Stokes in January won the International Cricket Council’s player of the year award.England pace bowler Jofra Archer, who bowled the super over in the World Cup final, is among Wisden’s five cricketers of the year.Australians Pat Cummins, Marnus Labuschagne and Ellyse Perry have been named alongside Archer, as well as South Africa-born Essex off-spinner Simon Harmer.Perry also reclaimed the leading women’s cricketer in the world title from India’s Smriti Mandhana."
Web Desk,Paraguay court releases Ronaldinho into house arrest in Asuncion hotel,2020-04-08,"BRAZIL: A Paraguayan judge on Tuesday ordered the release of Brazilian football great Ronaldinho and his brother into house arrest while they await trial on charges of using false passports to enter the country. Judge Gustavo Amarilla told reporters that he had ordered the “continuation of house arrest in a hotel for Ronaldinho and his brother.”The pair were jailed one month ago to await trial, but their lawyers have posted bail of $1.6 million.Ronaldinho, considered one of the greatest footballers of all time, was a star of Brazil’s 2002 World Cup win and played for European giants Barcelona, Paris Saint-Germain and AC Milan, among others.The ruling means the brothers can swap their grim police cellblock — which has also housed Paraguay’s former soccer federation chief and the ex-speaker of the lower house of parliament — for a plush colonial-style hotel in downtown Asuncion.The brochure of the refurbished 107-room Palmaroga Hotel, located in the capital’s historic center, describes it as offering “a seamless blend of early 1900s Renaissance grace and modern comfort as well as luxury.”“I have the assurance of the hotel managers that they, at their own expense, can observe house arrest there,” Amarilla told a news conference.Paraguay’s appeals court last month rejected a request to release the pair, meaning the two-time world player of the year spent his 40th birthday behind bars. With Paraguay’s capital on lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic, the judge communicated his ruling in a cellphone call to the brothers, with prosecutors and defense lawyers — and TV cameras — present. The judge and many others wore face masks as a precaution against the virus.A beaming Ronaldinho, in a black T-shirt and matching headband, gave a thumbs-up sign to show he understood the terms of his release.‘Fake passports’He and his brother, Roberto de Assis Moreira — who is also his business manager — initially encountered no problems after arriving in Asuncion from neighboring Brazil on March 4.However, shortly after their arrival, the brothers were taken into police custody when investigators raided their hotel following discovery that their passports were fake.Ronaldinho, given a rock star’s welcome to Asuncion by around 2,000 children and teenagers, said the passports had been given to him by sponsors of a charity working with disadvantaged children.Fourteen other people have been charged in the case, which has expanded into an investigation into possible money laundering.An arrest warrant has been issued for the Paraguayan businesswoman in charge of the charity foundation that invited Ronaldinho.He proved a popular inmate of the police headquarters jail where he was held, donating a trophy to the winning team in a recent prisoners’ futsal tournament."
Web Desk,Australian cricketers ‘sucked up’ to Kohli to save IPL deals: Clarke,2020-04-07,"SYDNEY: Australian cricketers “sucked up” to India and Virat Kohli by holding back on verbal sledging to protect lucrative Indian Premier League deals, according to former Australia captain Michael Clarke.Clarke said players were “too scared” to play a normal game against India because of the influence of the world’s wealthiest cricket tournament.“Everybody knows how powerful India are in regards to the financial part of the game, internationally or domestically with the IPL,” Clarke said on Sky Racing television.“I feel that Australian cricket, and probably every other team over a little period, went the opposite and actually sucked up to India.“They were too scared to sledge Kohli or the other Indian players,” he said, referring to the verbal sparring that often takes place on the pitch.Australian players have attracted big money since the IPL started in 2008. Paceman Pat Cummins is the most expensive overseas star this year with Kolkata Knight Riders paying $2.17 million.The contest has been delayed because of the coronavirus pandemic and the league must announce soon whether it will be held at all.The league was due to feature top internationals including England’s Ben Stokes and David Warner of Australia.Clarke, who played for the now-defunct Pune Warriors in 2012, said Australian players coveted the million-dollar deals on offer.“The players were like: ‘I’m not going to sledge Kohli, I want him to pick me for Bangalore so I can make my $1 million for my six weeks”.”“I feel like that’s where Australia went through that little phase where our cricket become a little bit softer or not as hard as we’re accustomed to seeing.”The league is a huge revenue earner for the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and is estimated to generate more than $11 billion for the Indian economy."
Web Desk,Coronavirus not an opportunity for athletes to dope: WADA president,2020-04-07,"MONTREAL: Athletes are fooling themselves if they think they can use the chaos caused globally by the coronavirus pandemic to cheat, World Anti-Doping Agency president Witold Banka has told AFP. The Pole said physical testing might be virtually at a standstill but WADA and national anti-doping agencies possessed other weapons they can deploy in the fight against doping.Canada and Russia have gone public in saying they have suspended their testing programmes while the British anti-doping body has significantly reduced its testing.“COVID-19 is not a space for the athletes to cheat,” Banka said in a phone interview from his home in Poland.“They should not feel it is a time for cheating. Otherwise, the anti-doping agencies will use their weapons to catch them.”The 35-year-old former Polish sports minister, who only took up his post on January 1 after being elected to replace Craig Reedie, said he hoped it would not take long once the pandemic was over to return testing to its “full power”.In the meantime, WADA would rely on other means to keep tabs on athletes.“Testing is not our only weapon and we have some strong ones,” Banka said.“There is the athlete biological passport, there is long-term analysis of samples, there is intelligence.“The biological passport is a useful tool for the profile of the athletes.“Also they are still obliged to tell us of their whereabouts even if we cannot go and test them.”Banka is mindful however that on a global basis, combating the coronavirus is the number one priority.“Anti-doping is not as important as people’s lives,” he said. The former international 400 metres runner said he had been in regular contact with leading sports bodies including the International Olympic Committee and the National Anti-Doping Organizations to discuss the current situation.“We issued guidelines for them that cover a number of areas that may be affected by COVID-19.”‘Cause for concern’The pandemic has forced Banka to put on hold several ideas he wants to implement, especially a bid to increase funding for the anti-doping fight.“I am pursuing the idea of a Solidarity Fund to serve regions like Africa, for example, where they have very limited anti-doping systems (there is just one accredited laboratory in South Africa),” he said.“We are still working on that, this is a very important issue.”He aims to encourage sponsors and corporate partners to back the fight against doping with hard cash.“The idea is to get them to contribute a minimum of their sponsorship investment in sport (to anti-doping efforts).”Such corporate involvement could go some way to resolving an age-old problem for WADA, and one Reedie frequently raised — that their budget is insufficient for the size of the task they face.“We are a strong organisation with powerful tools,” said Banka.“But taking into account our budget, $36-40 million a year, that is not in line with the expectations towards the organisation expressed by our stakeholders. We want, or rather have to, increase it.“That is why we are looking for some alternative sources of funding.”Banka said proudly that WADA “plays many roles” and achieves a lot even with the budget constraints but stresses that with extra funding “it could do a lot more”.“One aspect we would like to address is that at the 2016 Rio Games, 10 percent of the medallists came from countries who either have very weak anti-doping systems or none at all,” he said.“That is a cause for concern and one which we should have the capability to address.“That would be possible if sponsors were willing to contribute to the Solidarity Fund.”"
Web Desk,"Formula One in ‘very fragile state’, warns McLaren boss Brown",2020-04-06,"ENGLEWOOD: McLaren boss Zak Brown said Sunday that the coronavirus pandemic has plunged Formula One into “a very fragile state”, warning that as many as four teams could even be driven out of business.The 2020 world championship has been unable to start with eight races of a scheduled 22 already either scrapped or postponed.“This is potentially devastating to teams, and if (it is devastating) to enough teams then it’s very threatening to F1 as a whole,” Brown told the BBC on the eve of a meeting planned to discuss cost-cutting in the sport.Brown insisted that all the teams have agreed to lower the 2021 budget cap to $150m (138.7 million euros) down from $175 million.However, he said the ceiling needs to be reduced further to counter the financial fall-out from the virus-hit season.“Could I see — through what is going on right now in the world if we don’t tackle this situation head on very aggressively — two teams disappearing? Yeah,” said Brown.“In fact, I could see four teams disappearing if this isn’t handled the right way.“And then, given how long it takes to ramp up an F1 team, and given the economic and health crisis we are in right now, to think there would be people lined up to take over those teams like there has historically been… I don’t think the timing could be worse from that standpoint.“So I think F1 is in a very fragile state at the moment.”"
Web Desk,"Spit, sweat and shaking on it: Three sports habits that could change after coronavirus",2020-04-06,"PARIS: As the coronavirus brings the international sports calendar to a grinding halt, AFP Sport looks at three long-standing habits which could change forever once competition resumes.SALIVA TO TAKE SHINE OFF SWING BOWLING— It’s been a tried and trusted friend to fast bowlers throughout the history of cricket.But the days of applying saliva to one side of the ball to encourage swing could be over in the aftermath of COVID-19.“As a bowler I think it would be pretty tough going if we couldn’t shine the ball in a Test match,” said Australia quick Pat Cummins.“If it’s at that stage and we’re that worried about the spread, I’m not sure we’d be playing sport.”TOWELS IN TENNIS – NO TOUCHING— Tennis players throwing towels, dripping with sweat and blood and probably a tear or two, at ball boys and girls, has often left fans sympathising for the youngsters.Moves by officials to tackle the issue took on greater urgency in March when the coronavirus was taking a global grip.Behind closed doors in Miki, ball boys and girls on duty at the Davis Cup tie between Japan and Ecuador wore gloves.Baskets, meanwhile, were made available for players to deposit their towels.Back in 2018, the ATP introduced towel racks at some events on a trial basis, but not everyone was overjoyed.“I think having the towel whenever you need it, it’s very helpful. It’s one thing less that you have to think about,” said Greece’s Stefanos Tsitsipas when he was playing at the NextGen Finals in Milan.“I think it’s the job of the ball kids to provide towels and balls for the players.”LET’S NOT SHAKE ON IT— Pre-match handshakes were abandoned in top football leagues just before the sports shutdown.Premier League leaders Liverpool also banned the used of mascots while Southampton warned against players signing autographs and stopped them posing for selfies.Away from football, the NBA urged players to opt for the fist bump rather than the long-standing high-five.“I ain’t high-fiving nobody for the rest of my life after this,” NBA superstar LeBron James told the “Road Trippin’ Podcast”.“No more high-fiving. After this corona shit? Wait ’til you see me and my teammates’ handshakes after this shit.”Basketball stars were also told not to take items such as balls or teams shirts to autograph.US women’s football star Megan Rapinoe says edicts to ban handshakes or even high-fives may be counter-productive anyway.“We’re going to be sweating all over each other all game, so it sort of defeats the purpose of not doing a handshake,” she told the New York Times in March."
Web Desk,Walker faces Man City probe after hosting ‘sex party’ during lockdown,2020-04-06,"MANCHESTER: Kyle Walker is facing disciplinary action from Manchester City after reportedly breaking coronavirus lockdown conditions by hosting a “sex party” even though he has advised people to stay at home.The England defender, 29 has apologised after the Sun newspaper reported that he invited two call girls to his flat on Tuesday.On Wednesday Walker posted on social media, urging the public to follow government guidelines on social distancing.Britain reported 621 more deaths from COVID-19 as of 1600 GMT on Saturday, taking the total toll to 4,934.“I want to apologise to my family, friends, football club, supporters and the public for letting them down,” Walker said in a statement.“There are heroes out there making a vital difference to society at the moment and I have been keen to help support and highlight their amazing sacrifices and life-saving work over the past week.”Walker is the second high-profile Premier League player to have been caught flouting the government’s guidelines after Aston Villa’s Jack Grealish.The Villa captain went to a party last weekend and was pictured next to a road in slippers, just hours after he posted a video urging fans to stay safe at home on social media.Grealish apologised and was fined and disciplined by Villa.Football is on hold due to the coronavirus outbreak and City will now look into Walker’s conduct.A club statement said: “Our staff and players have been working to support the incredible efforts of the NHS (National Health Service) and other key workers in fighting the effects of the COVID-19 coronavirus in any way we can. Kyle’s actions in this matter have directly contravened these efforts.“We are disappointed to hear the allegations, note Kyle’s swift statement and apology, and will be conducting an internal disciplinary procedure in the coming days.”"
Web Desk,Italian union urges pay deal for lower league players,2020-04-06,"ROME: The head of the Italian footballers’ association (AIC) on Sunday urged football authorities in the country to strike a deal to safeguard lower league players, who risk losing their livelihoods due to the deadly coronavirus pandemic. “In Lega Pro (which manages the third-tier Serie C), Serie D and women’s football there are players who provide for their families with very low earnings,” AIC president Damiano Tommasi told Rainews24.“We’re looking to see if the resources we can get our hands on can help give them some security… 70 percent of players in the Lega Pro have gross earnings of less than 50,000 euros ($54,000) a year.”“Even going beyond individual athletes, I believe we have a responsibility to protect the kit men, physical therapists, drivers and pitch-side workers.”Tommasi spoke a day before a videoconference meeting between Serie A clubs in which player salaries — as well as potential dates to restart the league — will be on the agenda after failing to strike a deal with the AIC.The top-flight outfits had reportedly proposed a four-month suspension of salary payments in line with what Juventus players have already agreed with their club, an idea that was given short shrift by the AIC, who according to newspaper Gazzetta Dello Sport counter-proposed a one month stop.On Saturday, the president of the Lega Pro Francesco Ghirelli said sides in the division could disappear in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, which appeared on Sunday to be slowly abating in Italy but has still killed thousands.“With every day that passes, there is a greater risk that entire clubs and companies could be forced out of business,” Ghirelli said in a statement.“The whole network of Serie C clubs is very close to collapse … The very real risk is that owners could see their clubs go bankrupt. Players would then find themselves with no club and, consequently, no salary at all.“This is why we need sacrifices from everyone to save football. We need to realise as soon as possible that this virus could see many Serie C clubs disappear.”"
Web Desk,Ex-Pakistan cricket great Miandad says spot-fixers should be hanged,2020-04-05,"LAHORE: Cricketers involved in match fixing should be hanged, former Pakistan batting great Javed Miandad suggested Friday.Match-fixing and spot-fixing — determining the outcome of a specific part of a game rather than the overall result — have stained the country’s sport for several years.“Players who are involved in spot-fixing should be severely punished,” Miandad, who scored Pakistan’s second-highest Test runs with 8832, said on his YouTube channel.“Spot-fixers should be hanged because it is similar to killing someone, and so the punishment should also be on the same lines. An example should be set so that no player even thinks about doing something like this.”His remarks follow player Mohammad Hafeez’s protests over former opener Sharjeel Khan’s return despite receiving a five-year ban in 2017 over a spot-fixing case.Meanwhile, Pakistan batsman Umar Akmal faces a ban of six months to life after being charged for not reporting a fixing offer last month, a crime under Pakistan Cricket Board’s anti-corruption code.Fixing was exposed in 1995 after Australians Shane Warne, Tim May and Mark Waugh alleged then-skipper Salim Malik offered them bribes to under-perform in matches.That led to a judicial inquiry that banned Malik for life.But in 2010, then Pakistan skipper Salman Butt and fast bowlers Mohammad Amir and Mohammad Asif were involved in a spot-fixing case that led to five-year bans.Only Amir returned to international cricket — a comeback that also raised opposition, most prominently by Hafeez."
Web Desk,Ex-Pakistan cricket great Miandad says spot-fixers should be hanged,2020-04-05,"LAHORE: Cricketers involved in match fixing should be hanged, former Pakistan batting great Javed Miandad suggested Friday.Match-fixing and spot-fixing — determining the outcome of a specific part of a game rather than the overall result — have stained the country’s sport for several years.“Players who are involved in spot-fixing should be severely punished,” Miandad, who scored Pakistan’s second-highest Test runs with 8832, said on his YouTube channel.“Spot-fixers should be hanged because it is similar to killing someone, and so the punishment should also be on the same lines. An example should be set so that no player even thinks about doing something like this.”His remarks follow player Mohammad Hafeez’s protests over former opener Sharjeel Khan’s return despite receiving a five-year ban in 2017 over a spot-fixing case.Meanwhile, Pakistan batsman Umar Akmal faces a ban of six months to life after being charged for not reporting a fixing offer last month, a crime under Pakistan Cricket Board’s anti-corruption code.Fixing was exposed in 1995 after Australians Shane Warne, Tim May and Mark Waugh alleged then-skipper Salim Malik offered them bribes to under-perform in matches.That led to a judicial inquiry that banned Malik for life.But in 2010, then Pakistan skipper Salman Butt and fast bowlers Mohammad Amir and Mohammad Asif were involved in a spot-fixing case that led to five-year bans.Only Amir returned to international cricket — a comeback that also raised opposition, most prominently by Hafeez."
Web Desk,Pressure grows on India for shortened IPL behind closed doors,2020-04-05,"NEW DELHI: Players are putting pressure on cricket authorities to plan a shortened Twenty20 Indian Premier League later in the year to “kickstart” the sports economy after the coronavirus lockdown. The world’s richest cricket tournament has been postponed until April 15, which coincides with the end of India’s 21-day nationwide shutdown to halt the spread of the pandemic.But with the number of cases and deaths rising and India isolated from international travel, few believe any sport will be possible in the sub-continent for at least three months.“Let’s say July-August is the earliest,” said Kevin Pietersen, the former England batsman.“I do truly believe the IPL should happen. I think every single player around the world is desperate to play the IPL,” he said on Indian broadcaster Star Sports.Pietersen suggested the eight-team tournament be shortened from its normal eight-week duration and played behind closed doors.“There could be a way in which to get some money into the franchises, into the economy by having a situation where you use maybe three venues which are completely closed to fans,” said Pietersen.“And the players can still go out and play the tournament in three weeks or in four weeks.“I think the fans need to understand they can’t watch a live game at the moment and they might not be able to watch a live game for the foreseeable future.”The league is a huge revenue earner for the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and is estimated to generate more than $11 billion for the Indian economy.Chinese mobile phone-maker Vivo paid $330 million to be the league’s top sponsor for 2018-2022.Former India batsman Sanjay Manjrekar said the league, which involves stars such as England’s Ben Stokes, David Warner and Pat Cummins of Australia, and India captain Virat Kohli, will inject life into the virus-ravaged economy.“The moment we get clearances from all the authorities that matter, the IPL should happen, only because it will kickstart the economy,” said the cricketer-turned-commentator.“Because when you talk about the IPL it’s not just about the Mumbai Indians, or a (Mahendra Singh) Dhoni or a Virat Kohli, there are a lot of people who are making their livelihood through the IPL.”Stokes and Cummins have already voiced their eagerness to participate in the IPL.Kolkata Knight Riders-contracted Cummins said, “everyone’s still really keen for it (IPL) to all go ahead”.BCCI president Sourav Ganguly has conceded the IPL will be a “truncated” affair if it happens at all."
Web Desk,Two small windows to reschedule PSL 2020 knockouts: Wasim Khan,2020-04-04,"LAHORE: Wasim Khan has said that the PCB’s “first point of call” is to ensure that the knockout stages of the 2020 PSL can be played at some point, following speculation that Multan Sultans might be awarded the trophy after topping the group stage.Speaking to ESPNcricinfo’s Stump Mic podcast, Wasim, the PCB’s chief executive, said that the fifth edition of the competition had been a “resounding success” and that the board has identified two possible windows for the knockout stages of the competition to be played later in the year, after the tournament was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.Meanwhile, Multan Sultans co-owner Ali Khan Tareen tweeted that it would be “ridiculous” for his franchise to be handed the trophy, and that the knockouts should be rescheduled for later in the year “so our local players get more opportunities to shine”.Last week, franchise owners seemed divided upon the issue, with Multan’s other co-owner Alamgir Tareen urging the PSL not to reschedule the unplayed fixtures but stakeholders in the other semi-finalists – Lahore Qalandars, Karachi Kings and Peshawar Zalmi – hoping a window could be found for the games to be played.“We’re currently looking at when we can reschedule the remaining matches to be played, and we’re confident we’ll get those done at the back end of the year, subject to obviously all things going well,” Wasim said.“From our point of view, the first point of call is to try and ensure that we get the remaining matches played. There are two small windows that we have identified at the back end of the year.“Ideally, you probably need no more than three or four days. So we’re just working that out. We’re going to be taking the views of the franchise owners into it, get their views on it, look at what potential format we can play.“If you remember, initially it was based on qualifiers, eliminators and then the final, and then we moved to semi-finals and a final based on the shorter window because of safety reasons around the coronavirus. We are looking at that, and we are confident that we can get that done.”Elsewhere, domestic competitions have been abandoned early, with the team topping the table awarded the trophy: New South Wales were declared Sheffield Shield winners, Weillington were given the Plunket Shield title, while Lions and Dolphins were named as first-class and one-day winners in South Africa.But Wasim pushed back against the idea that Multan, who topped the group stage with 14 points, should be given the trophy.“There’s no fun, right, in just handing it over to Multan Sultans at the moment? Although they’ll probably be pushing for that. Our first point of call is to make that happen.“If it can’t happen then as other leagues around the world have done is to then declare a winner. Them [Multan] being on top, that would probably be the case.”While Alamgir Tareen had pushed back against the idea of playing a knockout stage, saying he did not consider it to be “practical”, Ali Khan Tareen tweeted that he had “differing views on the way forward” to his co-owner.“Finishing at No.1 means we were the most dominant/consistent team, but it doesn’t mean we won,” he tweeted. “It would be ridiculous for the PCB to just give us the trophy. All 4 teams have the same chance of winning. Trophies should be won, not given.“And as I’ve always said, trophies are not important. Helping players develop, giving them a platform and watching them excel is so much more rewarding. So that’s why I want the remaining games to be played later in the year so our local players get more opportunities to shine.”While the destination of the trophy remains unclear, Wasim said that the PSL’s first full season in Pakistan had been a “massive, massive success”.“For the first time, we’d brought the whole of the PSL back to Pakistan. It was a huge undertaking to do that, and to see close to 600,000 fans turn up at four venues across 26 matches… for us, that was a huge success. The PCB staff worked day and night to make that happen.“Despite the fact we had to postpone at the semi-final stage, we felt it was a massive, massive success, particularly based off the feedback we’ve had from round the world.”"
Web Desk,Coronavirus pause could force global football to change,2020-04-02,"LONDON: Football has ground to a halt due to the coronavirus pandemic, and the immediate concern is the simple survival of many clubs because of the financial impact, but there is hope that the global game could ultimately emerge better from this crisis.“We are living through something none of us were used to and which will change us profoundly,” Everton manager Carlo Ancelotti told Corriere dello Sport.Not since World War II has the sport been forced to stop across Europe. The sudden interruption has exposed the deficiencies of a system intoxicated by huge sums of money.Cutbacks are inevitable in the short term.“TV money will go down, players and coaches will earn less. Tickets will cost less because people will have less money. The economy will be different and so will football. Maybe it will be better,” said Ancelotti.“As with most things, crisis is an opportunity,” football historian and academic David Goldblatt, author of recent book The Age of Football, told AFP, before sounding a warning.FEWER GAMESIt may also be time to rework the fixture calendar. The fashion for expanding existing tournaments — like staging a 48-team World Cup and 24-team Club World Cup — is surely not sustainable.“It is now high time that we find some rules to say ok, let’s get out of this crisis as well as we can, but let’s also put safeguards in that manage player loads successfully moving forward,” warned Jonas Baer-Hoffmann, general secretary of global players’ union FIFPro, as he called for “a much healthier set-up than we what have had lately.”FIFA president Gianni Infantino has acknowledged the calls for change, telling La Gazzetta dello Sport that “we can perhaps reform world football by taking a step back. With different formats. Fewer tournaments, maybe fewer teams, but more balanced.”Goldblatt, meanwhile, believes FIFA need to look again at plans to stage a 48-team World Cup in 2026 all across North America.That, and the European Championship that UEFA intend to stage in 12 cities across the continent, are being planned in ways which appear at odds with the need to face up to another imminent threat: climate change.“If we have learned anything from the last couple of months it is that we should listen to the scientists,” Goldblatt says. “We need to hit the pause button on all of this and have a massive rethink.”"
Web Desk,Khabib won’t fight in UFC 249,2020-04-02,"MOSCOW: Mixed martial arts star Khabib Nurmagomedov said Thursday he would not take part in a UFC card scheduled for April 18, saying he was not prepared to travel amid the coronavirus pandemic.Lightweight champion Nurmagomedov was due to have headlined the UFC 249 event in a bout against Tony Ferguson but said in a post on Instagram he was not willing to leave Russia for the fight.“I understand everything and I’m definitely upset more than you to cancel the fight, probably like all others, I had many plans after the fight, but I can’t control it all,” Nurmagomedov wrote.The Ultimate Fighting Championship has already postponed three events after officials were unable to find venues to stage bouts amid restrictions put in place to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.The UFC had still not disclosed a venue for the Khabib-Ferguson fight, but president Dana White has spoken of his determination to organise the card.Reports have said the fights were expected to go ahead without fans.White said in an interview last week he wanted the fight to go ahead to try and restore “some normalcy” to US sport, which has been locked down since the coronavirus pandemic erupted.“I’m gonna try to pull off Tony vs. Khabib on April 18 and try to get some normalcy back into this country,” White said.“I have four or five locations right now. We’re getting this deal done.”"
Web Desk,"Misbah bats for full World Test Championship, equal opportunities",2020-04-02,"LAHORE: Pakistan head coach Misbah-ul-Haq has called for a “fair and equal” resolution to the World Test Championship when cricket finally resumes even if it means extending the tournament, warning that a shortened competition would fail to give a “true picture” of the standings.With cricket, like nearly all major sports and activities, forced to a grinding halt because of the coronavirus pandemic, one of the key questions is how to bring the inaugural World Test Championship, which is scheduled to run until June 2021, to an agreeable conclusion.Several series that are part of the Championship have been postponed over the past few weeks, with the scheduling and limited time-frame meaning it is virtually impossible to fulfil all the fixtures before the end date.“When we finally start moving back to normal life and cricket can resume, every side should get equal opportunities and the tournament shouldn’t be shortened,” Misbah said in a video press conference.“No matches should be struck off, even if that means prolonging the championship. Every side should get the chance to play all the games they had scheduled in this cycle.Otherwise, you won’t get the true picture of what the rankings should have actually been and only some teams play all their games. That will disrupt the balance of the tournament. To me, it doesn’t matter if this goes beyond 2021 if that’s what it will take for everyone to get equal opportunities. That’s not a problem.”England’s three-match Test series in Sri Lanka and the second Test of Bangladesh’s series in Pakistan are among the most notable World Test Championship fixtures to be postponed, but it remains exceedingly likely most, if not all, cricket over the next few months won’t go ahead.That means England’s three-match Test series against West Indies and Pakistan are also in jeopardy, as is West Indies’ two-Test series against South Africa.The seasonal demands of Test cricket mean rescheduling these games before June 2021 is improbable, and if all games in the Championship are to be honoured, extending the tournament would appear to be the only solution. That would mean delaying the start of the second World Test Championship competition, due to start immediately after.Misbah also spoke about the challenges players faced trying to keep themselves fit while ensuring they stayed home, revealing the coaching staff were monitoring their progress through fitness watches.“All of our centrally contracted players and those in our wider pool are in complete contact with the coaching staff and the fitness trainer. We send them the training plans that we want them to follow and to keep ourselves in shape to the best of our abilities. We want to ensure when cricket resumes, the physical conditions of our players should be the same as it was before and meets the demands of international cricket.“We have groups online where we check in with players on how they think they’re doing. We share plans with them on the exercise regimen to follow even if they don’t have access to gym facilities.“Because we can’t practice on the ground, what we can do is make sure we do our homework properly. That goes both for me and the players. We look at the last couple of series we played there and how England played in the last season at home. We analyse what we can do better so as soon we get the opportunity, we hit the ground running.He did have a few choice words for Sharjeel Khan, acknowledging he had the ability to be an explosive asset in T20 cricket, but expressed disappointment with his fitness levels.“He has the strike rate you’ll need at the top of the order at the World T20, especially against pace bowling on Australian pitches. But I think Sharjeel needs to work harder. He’s emerged back onto the scene after such a long time, so the one thing he could have ensured was his fitness, the one thing he could control, was up to the mark.“If you’re serious about making a comeback, the you should have been in perfect physical shape. If he thinks he can come into the side without having made any changes, then selecting him would be an injustice to the other players. I wasn’t satisfied to see that at all. Now that there’s no cricket, he should be thinking day and night he needs to become super fit.”"
Web Desk,"Yuvraj, Harbhajan face backlash for supporting Afridi’s appeal for donation",2020-04-02,"Former Indian cricketers Yuvraj Singh and Harbhajan Singh have come under severe criticism after they expressed support for former Pakistani cricketer Shahid Afridi’s charity foundation in its fight against the coronavirus pandemic.Afridi’s appeal for donations to help people affected by the deadly virus in Pakistan has had overwhelming support from leading cricketers.Harbhajan urged people to contribute in a video message and called on other cricketers in the two countries to make similar appeals. “These are testing times, it’s time to look out for each other,” Yuvraj wrote on Twitter in a call for funds.These are testing times, it’s time to lookout for each other specially the ones who are lesser fortunate. Lets do our bit, I am supporting @SAfridiOfficial & @SAFoundationN in this noble initiative of covid19. Pls donate on https://t.co/yHtpolQbMx #StayHome @harbhajan_singh pic.twitter.com/HfKPABZ6Wh — yuvraj singh (@YUVSTRONG12) March 31, 2020But the two South Asian nations are bitter rivals and Indian Twitter users posted angry reactions, slamming the two for supporting the initiative of a rival player who has been a fierce critic of Indian occupation of Kashmir.“Do you have any sense?” wrote one Twitter user. “Lost respect” for Harbhajan Singh, added another. “Sorry guys you lost it,” posted another user.Political tensionsKashmir is claimed in its entirety by both India and Pakistan, although both countries only control parts of it. While rebels in India-held Kashmir have been fighting Indian rule for decades, New Delhi frequently accuses Pakistan of organizing “terrorism” on its side of the border.India and Pakistan have not played a bilateral cricket series since 2012-2013 due to political tensions between the two countries.Afridi thanked the two Indian players and condemned the online backlash.Very sad to see simple messages of humanity getting misunderstood! We r ambassadors for Love & peace ,Truly value the support extended by @YUVSTRONG12 & @harbhajan_singh for coming forward & urging people to #DonateKaroNa #HumanitybeyondBorders https://t.co/x5Uo5GUNp5 — Shahid Afridi (@SAfridiOfficial) April 1, 2020Yuvraj Singh defended his actions, saying that his message for helping those in need during the COVID-19 outbreak should not be misinterpreted.“I really don’t understand how a message to help the most vulnerable gets blown out of proportion!,” he wrote. “All I tried to achieve via that message was to help people in our respective countries by providing healthcare, my intention was not to hurt anyone’s feelings. I’m an Indian and will always bleed blue and will always stand for humanity.”"
Web Desk,Wimbledon set to be cancelled for first time since WWII,2020-04-01,"LONDON: Wimbledon looks certain to be scrapped for the first time since World War II by tournament chiefs on Wednesday as the coronavirus wreaks further havoc on the global sporting calendar.The cancellation of the only grasscourt Grand Slam tournament at the All England Club would leave the tennis season in disarray after the French Open was controversially moved and all events cancelled until June 7.Wimbledon, in leafy southwest London, is due to run for two weeks from June 29, with Novak Djokovic and Simona Halep set to defend their singles titles.A decision to scrap the tournament is widely expected, with the world struggling to contain the spread of COVID-19, which has infected more than 840,000 people worldwide and killed over 40,000.Lead-up tournaments in the short grasscourt season are also likely to be scrapped following talks on Tuesday, understood to have involved Wimbledon chiefs and the game’s governing bodies.Organisers had earlier ruled out playing the Grand Slam behind closed doors and postponing the event would also create its own problems.Three-time Wimbledon champion Boris Becker on Tuesday pleaded for tournament chiefs to wait longer before making a decision.“I really hope Wimbledon will wait until the end of April for decision!” he tweeted. “The tourney is first week of July… patience is a virtue.”But former women’s world number one Amelie Mauresmo, the 2006 Wimbledon champion, said the 2020 season would probably need to be scrapped.“I think that we are going to have to draw a line under the 2020 tennis season,” she tweeted.The cancellation of Wimbledon could mean multiple champions Roger Federer, Serena Williams and Venus Williams have played at the All England Club for the final time.Federer and Serena will be nearly 40 by the time of the 2021 championships and Venus will be 41.Serena, beaten in last year’s final by Halep, is stuck on 23 Grand Slam singles titles — agonisingly one away from equalling Margaret Court’s record.The conditions required to play on grass in England mean a postponement is impractical and a date later in the summer or early autumn would mean much shorter evenings.“Each week that passes, you get less and less light to play the tournament,” doubles specialist Jamie Murray told the BBC.American giant John Isner, who won the longest-ever tennis match over three days at Wimbledon in 2010, said the scrapping of the tournament would be a “tough pill to swallow”.“We may have to come to grips with the fact that we may not be playing Wimbledon this year,” he told ESPN on Tuesday.“Wimbledon sort of has to be played this (same) time of year,” Isner said.“With that surface, the event, it seems, has to be played this time and there’s a good chance it won’t be.”The French Tennis Federation provoked widespread anger with its unilateral decision to move the French Open from its original May 24 start date to begin on September 20.That puts the start only one week after the planned date of the US Open men’s final."
Web Desk,Fury hungry to repeat Wilder win in rematch,2020-03-31,"NEW YORK: Tyson Fury says he will never tire of beating Deontay Wilder in anticipation of his third fight against the American heavyweight, even though his potential all-British showdown with Anthony Joshua is on hold for now.Following a controversial draw in December 2018, Fury overpowered Wilder in Las Vegas in February, beating him in seven rounds.Wilder has activated the rematch clause in his contract, delaying the possibility of a hugely anticipated unification bout between WBC champion Fury and Anthony Joshua, who holds the WBA, IBF and WBO titles.It is now hoped Fury and Wilder will meet for a third bout later this year after the original date of July 18 was scrapped because of the coronavirus pandemic.“I’ll be obliged to give him a bit more,” Fury told the Good Morning Britain television programme on Tuesday. “You never tire of beating Deontay Wilder. It’s one of those things you take great pride in doing.“I really did what I said I was going to do and not many people, in boxing especially, say something and then do exactly what they were going to do.”Fury, unbeaten as a professional, added: “So I was quite proud of the performance and I’m really looking forward to getting all this coronavirus out of the way and the world getting back on track and getting back to my job.”With regular training not possible due to a lockdown in Britain, Fury has been working out alongside wife Paris and his five children in fitness sessions broadcast on Instagram Live.“It helps me stay in shape and helps many, many people out there who join in from all over the world,” said the 31-year-old.“I’m very, very grateful that I can have an input on helping people with their fitness and mental health problems during these lockdown times.“I’ve got Paris here and the kids. Everyone goes nuts in the front room while we’re working out.”"
Web Desk,From winners to worriers: isolated athletes face mental health risks,2020-03-31,"PARIS: Fear, stress and money worries: coronavirus lockdown is hard for anyone, but athletes are facing extra mental health risks as they go from highly active lifestyles to isolation and boredom, experts warn.While some housebound athletes have posted upbeat videos of themselves training or attempting internet challenges such as juggling toilet rolls, the stress caused by the extreme adjustment and uncertain future looks likely to take its toll.Long-term effects on athletes after the SARS and swine flu outbreaks included anxiety, obsessive hand-washing and fear of getting too close to people, Carolyn Broderick, Tennis Australia’s chief medical officer, told AFP.But the impact of the current pandemic is unprecedented, with athletes sidelined worldwide after COVID-19 forced most sports into hibernation and put billions of people in lockdown.Those affected range from well-paid superstars such as tennis’s Serena Williams, who has suffered from depression in the past, to journeyman pros and Olympic hopefuls whose lives have been thrown into turmoil.Williams, 38, who only needs one more Grand Slam title to equal the all-time record of 24, admitted that social distancing because of coronavirus had left her feeling “a ton of stress”.“Every little thing makes me crazy. And by anxiety I mean I’m just on edge. Any time anyone sneezes around me or coughs I get crazy,” she said on TikTok.Even before the virus, a steady stream of people involved in sports — often an insecure and high-stress profession — have wrestled with depression, from Williams to Olympic swimming great Michael Phelps, MMA fighter Ronda Rousey, boxer Mike Tyson and All Blacks rugby player John Kirwan.I’M STRUGGLINGThe athletes currently out of action include thousands of would-be Olympians, many of whom have put careers on hold to chase medal dreams but now face extra disruption after the Tokyo 2020 Games were postponed for a year.“I would be lying if I said I was all right. Just like most people I’m struggling in my own ways,” Olympics-bound American weightlifter Kate Nye, who has been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, told America’s WOODTV.com.Concerns have also been raised about Australia’s swimmers and cricketers, after athletes in both sports suffered well-documented psychological problems in the past.“The mental health thing, we talked about it in a conference call this week,” said Australian men’s cricket coach Justin Langer.“Particularly for any of our staff or players who are home alone basically. We have to keep an eye on those guys and girls to make sure they’re OK.”Broderick, who was deputy medical director for Australia’s 2016 Olympics team, and sits on an advisory panel for the National Rugby League, said the effects of isolation can be felt more acutely by athletes.“They have all the same psychological issues that everyone does but also the stress and anxiety about their futures that they cannot easily control,” she said.“They don’t know what the next stage is going to be or how long they’re going to have to quarantine or isolate for.”Many sports bodies have reacted by offering support to athletes. However, some sports are making cuts to avoid going bust, reducing their ability to help.Substance abuse, such as drinking or using drugs, is one tell-tale sign of problems, Broderick said.“Stress and anxiety can manifest in substance abuse. That’s what I’d look out for, if they’re using alcohol as a support,” she said.“There has certainly been some anxiety,” added Broderick, who said Australia’s tennis players receive regular communications and can call on medical support.“The high-level, high-profile professional athletes can handle this loss of income but there are a lot of athletes on the fringe,” she said.“If you have a few months of loss of activity there’s a significant loss of income as well.”She recommended athletes stick to routines, focus on what can be controlled and use their extra time for a hobby or online training to maintain their mental health."
Web Desk,"Wimbledon will be cancelled, believes Jamie Murray",2020-03-31,"LONDON: Cancelling Wimbledon is the only realistic option open to organisers as they grapple with the chaos caused by the coronavirus, says two-time Grand Slam men’s doubles champion, Jamie Murray.Tennis is at a standstill until June 7, with the entire European clay-court season already wiped out and the only Grand Slam event played on grass is expected to be officially cancelled on Wednesday.Wimbledon organisers have ruled out playing the two-week tournament, slated to run from June 29 to July 12, behind closed doors.The French Open has already been postponed, shoehorned into the schedule in late September, and it will be difficult for Wimbledon to rearrange.Murray, a Wimbledon men’s doubles finalist in 2015 and a two-time mixed doubles champion, said postponing the tournament presented a series of hurdles, including shorter evenings.“I think for them, it’s difficult to move the tournament back because you’re running into other tournaments that are for the moment still on the schedule,” the 34-year-old Scotsman told the BBC on Tuesday.“And also just things like daylight to host the event. Each week that passes, you get less and less light to play the tournament.“Obviously they play until nine and 10 o’clock each night at Wimbledon.”Murray, whose younger brother Andy is a two-time Wimbledon singles champion, is kicking his heels in the absence of tennis.“I’m just at home, taking the necessary precautions, and trying to stay as active as I can,” he said.“It’s different. We’re used to being on the road all the time, used to being in different cities every week, and you kind of become institutionalised to that.”"
Web Desk,Spurs cut non-playing staff wages by 20pc,2020-03-31,"LONDON: Tottenham have reduced the wages of non-playing staff by 20 percent for the next two months, with chairman Daniel Levy hoping players will follow suit due to the financial crisis caused by coronavirus.Players at Barcelona, Juventus and Bayern Munich are among those to have taken either a significant wage cut or deferred payments during the crisis.Football in England is suspended until at least April 30 and a meeting of Premier League clubs on Friday is expected to push that date further back.“Having already taken steps to reduce costs, we ourselves made the difficult decision, in order to protect jobs, to reduce the remuneration of all 550 non-playing directors and employees for April and May by 20 percent,” Levy said in a statement on the Spurs website.“We hope the current discussions between the Premier League, PFA (Professional Footballers’ Association) and LMA (League Managers Association) will result in players and coaches doing their bit for the football eco system.”Tottenham earlier this month posted profits of £68.6 million ($85 million) for the year to June 2019 on the back of a run to the Champions League final and their move into a new 62,000-capacity stadium.However, Levy said those numbers bore little relevance, with the club facing a difficult period and uncertainty among sponsors and media partners.“When I read or hear stories about player transfers this summer like nothing has happened, people need to wake up to the enormity of what is happening around us,” he added.“We maybe the eighth-largest Club in the world by revenue according to the Deloitte survey but all that historical data is totally irrelevant as this virus has no boundaries.”Tottenham sit eighth in the Premier League table and would, therefore, miss out on the riches of Champions League football for the first time in five years next season if the league were to be curtailed as it stands.However, economic factors are behind the desire of Premier League clubs to finish the campaign, even if it means doing so behind closed doors.According to reports, the clubs would have to reimburse broadcasters to the tune of £762 million if the season is not completed."
Web Desk,Tokyo organisers eye July 2021 for delayed Olympics: reports,2020-03-29,"TOKYO: Tokyo Olympics organisers are eyeing next July as a start date for the postponed Games, Japanese media reported Sunday, following the historic decision to delay the event due to the coronavirus.Given the ongoing pandemic and need for preparation time, the most likely plan would be for the Games to begin on July 23, 2021, public broadcaster NHK said, citing sources within the organising panel.It came after Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike raised the idea on Friday of moving the event to a less hot and humid time of year.She argued that this would make marathons and other races easier to endure, meaning they could be held in the capital instead of in northern Sapporo city, where the International Olympic Committee (IOC) had decided to move them.The Tokyo 2020 team led by Yoshiro Mori is currently discussing possible dates with the IOC, according to the Asahi Shimbun newspaper.On Saturday, Mori told a Japanese TV station that “some kind of conclusion” would be reached within a week.The Olympics were scheduled to open on July 24 this year with the Paralympics on August 25, but Japan announced last week it had secured agreement from the IOC to postpone the Games — a decision unprecedented in peacetime.Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said they would be held in around a year instead as a testament to humanity’s victory over the pandemic.The decision had been seen to open options for Tokyo, with IOC chief Thomas Bach saying that “all the options are on the table” and rescheduling “is not restricted just to the summer months”.Meanwhile, NHK said the Olympic flame would be displayed for a month at the J-Village sports complex in Fukushima, which was used as a base camp for thousands of relief workers in radiation protection suits during the 2011 nuclear disaster.A BLOW FOR VIRUS-HIT HOTELSThe shock postponement of the Tokyo 2020 Olympics has dealt a savage blow to Japan’s hotels and tourism industry, already reeling from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic.Many operators have seen bookings decimated by the virus and had been clinging to the hope that the Games would help them claw back this year’s losses.“This is an enormous shock for us, with sales in many of our member hotels already down by half because of plunging demand for tourism, not only from abroad but also inside Japan due to the coronavirus,” said Shigemi Sudo, secretary general of the Tokyo Hotels and Ryokans Association.“Many rooms are going to be cancelled, and it will be difficult to fill those empty rooms with new customers given the situation,” he said.But for all the hardship, there is one silver lining — the prospect of at least recovering some losses when the rescheduled Games go ahead.“There is no one to blame, and we think the postponement is a better decision than cancellation,” said Sudo of the Tokyo Hotels and Ryokans Association."
Web Desk,Star batsman Smith’s leadership ban ends,2020-03-29,"CANBERRA: A two-year leadership ban slapped on Steve Smith after the ball-tampering scandal in South Africa ended Sunday, leaving the master batsman free to skipper Australia again.The 30-year-old captained the team until he was suspended for 12 months over a brazen attempt to alter the ball with sandpaper under his watch during a Test in Cape Town in 2018.Part of his punishment included a further year-long exile from any leadership role, which has now expired.Co-conspirator and former vice-captain David Warner was banned from any leadership role for life, although both have successfully resumed their international careers.There have been calls for Smith to take back the Test captaincy from Tim Paine, but it remains unclear whether he wants to, with the 35-year-old seemingly intent on playing on.Coach Justin Langer last year praised Paine’s leadership as “brilliant” and said Smith may not want the “burden” of captaincy on top of batting pressures.Aaron Finch is skipper of the Twenty20 and one-day teams.Smith told Channel Nine television on Sunday he was focused only on trying to stay physically and mentally fit during the coronavirus shutdown of Australian cricket.He was supposed to be preparing for a big-money payday at the Indian Premier League, but the tournament has already been delayed until April 15 in response to the pandemic.With India in a three-week lockdown in a bid to contain a spread of the virus, Smith admitted the IPL appeared unlikely to go ahead.“I think the country’s basically shut its borders until the 15th of April,” he said.“It’s obviously not looking likely at the moment, I think there might be some meetings over the next couple of days to discuss what the go is with it all.“But just trying to stay physically fit and mentally fresh,” he added. “If it goes ahead at some point, then great. If not, then there’s plenty going on in the world at the moment. Just play it day by day.”All cricket in Australia has been cancelled, with the team’s three-match T20 series against New Zealand this month a casualty after just one game.Australia has a Test tour to Bangladesh scheduled for June and a subsequent one-day campaign in England, but both appear to be at risk."
Web Desk,Squash champion Azam Khan dies of coronavirus at 95,2020-03-28,"Azam Khan, one of the greatest squash players of all time, passed away in London on Saturday after being infected with the coronavirus.The 95-year-old Azam, who won four consecutive British Open titles between 1959-62, tested positive for COVID-19 last week and breathed his last London’s Ealing Hospital.His son Wasil Khan, a former British junior champion, told a foreign media outlet that the hospital authorities informed the family about Azam’s demise on Saturday afternoon. “All of us here in London are in isolation and the news has come as a big jolt for us,” said Wasil.Jonah Barrington, the six times British Open Champion, writes in his book, Murder in Squash Court that in 1967, a fortnight before the start of British Open, his coach Nasrullah Khan took him to his club and requested him for a match/practice session. Wherein, he scored only one point in three games. Totally shaken he requested him for another session but the next day too he could not improve on it and once again scored only one point against Azam. Only three weeks later, he writes that he won the first of his Six British Open titles. Azam was then 48 years old and had left professional squash in 1962.During an illustrious career, Azam featured in seven British Open championships and was regarded as one of the world’s best shot-makers and strategists. Even the mighty Hashim Khan could never beat a British Open final opponent the way Azam routed compatriot Roshan Khan in the 1959 finale. He won 9-1, 9-0, 9-0 to the dismay of an angry gallery which was left astounded by the quick outcome of the title match."
Web Desk,Wimbledon to hold ’emergency meeting’ with postponement or cancellation on cards,2020-03-26,"LONDON: Wimbledon could be postponed or even cancelled after All England Club chiefs called an “emergency meeting” for next week to discuss whether to go ahead with this year’s tournament amid the coronavirus outbreak.Wimbledon is set to start in London on June 29, but the continuing spread of the virus has caused havoc with the sporting schedule and the grass-court Grand Slam could be the next major event to be delayed.“The AELTC can confirm that it is continuing a detailed evaluation of all scenarios for The Championships 2020, including postponement and cancellation, as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak,” an All England Club statement said on Wednesday.“An emergency meeting of the AELTC Main Board is scheduled for next week, and in preparation we are communicating closely with the LTA, and with the ATP, WTA, ITF and the other Grand Slams.”The French Open was the first of this year’s three remaining Grand Slams to be postponed due to the virus.Originally scheduled to run from May 24 to June 7, the clay-court tournament was moved to September 20 by the French Tennis Federation in a move that angered some players.The new date for Roland Garros is just one week after the US Open finishes and clashes with the Laver Cup, the popular exhibition team competition set up by Roger Federer and featuring leading players from Europe and the rest of the world.Wimbledon, whose singles titles were won by Novak Djokovic and Simona Halep last year, is the crown jewel of the sport’s four Grand Slams.But moving it deeper into the tennis calender might be tricky after the outcry over the unilateral French Open switch.Euro 2020 and the Tokyo Olympics have both been put back by a year to allow the health crisis to be resolved.SIGNIFICANT RISKPressure is growing on the All England Club to make a decision and organisers have ruled out playing the tournament behind closed doors.“The build for The Championships is due to begin at the end of April,” the statement said.“At this time, based on the advice we have received from the public health authorities, the very short window available to us to stage The Championships due to the nature of our surface suggests that postponement is not without significant risk and difficulty. Playing behind closed doors has been formally ruled out.”Given it takes two months to get the Wimbledon site ready for the event, a decision needs to be made soon and All England Club chief executive Richard Lewis expects the call will be made at the emergency summit.“The unprecedented challenge presented by the Covid-19 crisis continues to affect our way of life in ways that we could not have imagined, and our thoughts are with all those affected in the UK and around the world,” Lewis said.“The single most important consideration is one of public health, and we are determined to act responsibly through the decisions we make.“We are working hard to bring certainty to our plans for 2020 and have convened an emergency meeting of the AELTC main board for next week, at which a decision will be made.”The Indian Wells Masters 1000 was the first ATP Tour event to be hit by the impact of the pandemic.The men’s and women’s tours are currently suspended until June 7, which includes the entire clay-court campaign.“We are in close discussion with all the grass-court events and they remain on the calendar as scheduled at this time,” ATP chairman Andrea Gaudenzi said.“The reality is this is a rapidly evolving situation and there is no option other than to take this day-by-day and week-by-week.”"
Web Desk,Feverish fans fuelled virus at Italy Champion’s League match,2020-03-25,"Ecstatic fans cheering and hugging at the Champion’s League game between Atalanta and Valencia in February boosted the spread of the coronavirus, the mayor of the worst-hit Italian city said Tuesday.Bergamo, in the northern Lombardy region, is now Italy’s worst-hit province, with nearly 6,728 infections.Its football team Atalanta had been having a stellar season, with a historic Champions League qualification. Its game against Spanish rival Valencia on February 19 at the San Siro stadium in Milan had been feverishly awaited by fans.Atalanta pulled off a stunning 4-1 victory — each goal met with shouts of glee, fans clutching at each other in excitement.Bergamo Mayor Giorgio Gori told foreign journalists the match was “among the sad explanations” for the high infection rate in the city and wider province.“Some 40,000 Bergamo inhabitants went to Milan to watch the game. Others watched it from their homes, in families, in groups, at the bar,” he said.“It’s clear that evening was a situation in which the virus was widely spread,” he added.But Gori said he didn’t think it was “the starting point”. Instead he believed Bergamo’s troubles began when a patient at the Fenaroli Hospital in Alzano was admitted with coronavirus but it went undetected, allowing him to infect others.Two weeks after the historic match in Milan the curve of the number of those infected in Bergamo began to rise steeply and the town has become the epicentre for the pandemic in Europe.Some 4,178 people have died so far in Lombardy, out of a total of over 6,820 in Italy.Gori said he thought the statistics failed to represent the real toll on Bergamo and the surrounding region because “there are certainly many elderly people who died at home, without it having been possible to take them to hospital”.“These people are not included in the official statistics. No tests have been done on them either before or after death”.Spanish club Valencia have said that 35 per cent of their team and staff have tested positive for coronavirus, following the trip to Milan.Atalanta on Tuesday confirmed that goalkeeper Marco Sportiello, who played in Valencia on March 10 as the Italian club qualified for the Champions League quarter-finals, had become their first player to test positive for COVID-19.“Marco is currently asymptomatic,” the team said in a statement. “The preventive quarantine, to which Marco and all the members of the first team had been subjected, will end on March 27.”"
Web Desk,Tokyo begins Olympic task of reorganising Games,2020-03-25,"TOKYO: Japan set about the unprecedented task of reorganising the Tokyo 2020 Olympics Wednesday after making the tough decision to postpone the Games by a year as the coronavirus pandemic locks down one third of the planet.The dramatic step to shift the Olympics, never before seen in peacetime, upends every aspect of the organisation — including venues, security, ticketing and accommodation.It is not even clear exactly when the rescheduled Games will take place. International Olympic Committee president Thomas Bach on Wednesday left the door open for them to be staged in the spring instead of the normal summer slot.“This is not restricted just to the summer months,” Bach said in a conference call.“All the options are on the table, before and including the summer of 2021.”In a move symbolic of the difficulties, Olympic countdown clocks in Tokyo switched from displaying the number of days to go to simply show today’s date and the time.“It’s like taking seven years to build the world’s biggest jigsaw puzzle and, with just one piece to go, having to start again but now with less time to finish,” tweeted Craig Spence, spokesman for the International Paralympic Committee.Japan has framed Tokyo 2020 as the “Recovery Games” — a chance to show the world it has bounced back from the “triple disaster” in 2011 when a massive earthquake sparked a tsunami and the Fukushima nuclear meltdown.The delayed event — still to be called Tokyo 2020 — will now be a “testament to mankind’s defeat of the new virus”, said Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.He repeated that message in a call with US President Donald Trump, in which the leaders agreed the Games would be “proof that humans have beaten the new coronavirus”, a Japanese government spokesman said.The Olympic flame “could become the light at the end of the tunnel in which the world finds itself at present”, Japan and the IOC said in a joint statement.WAY BIGGER THAN METhe quadrennial Olympics, which has weathered boycotts, terrorist attacks and protests, is the highest-profile event affected by the virus that has killed thousands and postponed or cancelled sports competitions worldwide.The IOC had come under fire for appearing out of touch by sticking to its schedule, but it eventually bowed to the inevitable, citing the need to protect the health of athletes.Bach said the postponement was “about protecting human life”, with more than 11,000 athletes expected along with 90,000 volunteers, and hundreds of thousands of officials and spectators from all over the world.US swimming star Ryan Lochte summed up the combination of disappointment and relief expressed by most athletes, after many had voiced anger at being asked to continue training during the pandemic.“I was a little pissed off because I’ve been training my butt off and I’ve been feeling great,” the 12-time Olympic medallist told the Los Angeles Times.“But this whole thing is way bigger than me,” Lochte added.There were similar feelings on the streets of Tokyo, which had won widespread praise for its preparations, with tickets in high demand and venues completed well ahead of schedule.“It is disappointing for sure, but when you think about the health of athletes as well as spectators, I understand,” IT engineer Momoko Doku told AFP on the bustling Shibuya crossing.The Japanese media were also broadly supportive, although the Tokyo Shimbun daily screamed “surprise and embarrassment”.“It is like all the efforts of the last seven years are back to square one,” the Nikkei business daily said.LET US HOPEThe Olympic torch relay, due to begin from Fukushima Thursday, has also been postponed but the flame will stay in the area until it is safe to begin.Organisers have to wrestle with a host of unanswered questions: are the venues still available? What to do with ticket-holders and volunteers? How to fit the Games into a crowded 2021 sporting schedule?The athlete’s village was due to be renovated into more than 4,000 luxury apartments, hundreds of which have already been snapped up. Tens of thousands of hotel rooms will need to be cancelled and rebooked.“I cannot tell you what the situation is,” Bach said when asked about how the postponement might affect the village.“It’s one of the many thousand of questions the taskforce has to address.”Japan and the organising committee were spending $12.6 billion on the Games and experts say they may need to spend around half that again to rearrange the event — before hopefully recouping the losses when the Olympics are held.Tokyo 2020 president Yoshiro Mori, an 82-year former prime minister and cancer survivor, pointed to his own health battles as inspiration for the difficult times ahead.“We have no choice but to have hope. I myself suffered cancer… But I was saved by a new drug. I am here, allowed to live."
Web Desk,Tokyo begins Olympic task of reorganising Games,2020-03-25,"TOKYO: Japan set about the unprecedented task of reorganising the Tokyo 2020 Olympics Wednesday after making the tough decision to postpone the Games by a year as the coronavirus pandemic locks down one third of the planet.The dramatic step to shift the Olympics, never before seen in peacetime, upends every aspect of the organisation — including venues, security, ticketing and accommodation.It is not even clear exactly when the rescheduled Games will take place. International Olympic Committee president Thomas Bach on Wednesday left the door open for them to be staged in the spring instead of the normal summer slot.“This is not restricted just to the summer months,” Bach said in a conference call.“All the options are on the table, before and including the summer of 2021.”In a move symbolic of the difficulties, Olympic countdown clocks in Tokyo switched from displaying the number of days to go to simply show today’s date and the time.“It’s like taking seven years to build the world’s biggest jigsaw puzzle and, with just one piece to go, having to start again but now with less time to finish,” tweeted Craig Spence, spokesman for the International Paralympic Committee.Japan has framed Tokyo 2020 as the “Recovery Games” — a chance to show the world it has bounced back from the “triple disaster” in 2011 when a massive earthquake sparked a tsunami and the Fukushima nuclear meltdown.The delayed event — still to be called Tokyo 2020 — will now be a “testament to mankind’s defeat of the new virus”, said Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.He repeated that message in a call with US President Donald Trump, in which the leaders agreed the Games would be “proof that humans have beaten the new coronavirus”, a Japanese government spokesman said.The Olympic flame “could become the light at the end of the tunnel in which the world finds itself at present”, Japan and the IOC said in a joint statement.WAY BIGGER THAN METhe quadrennial Olympics, which has weathered boycotts, terrorist attacks and protests, is the highest-profile event affected by the virus that has killed thousands and postponed or cancelled sports competitions worldwide.The IOC had come under fire for appearing out of touch by sticking to its schedule, but it eventually bowed to the inevitable, citing the need to protect the health of athletes.Bach said the postponement was “about protecting human life”, with more than 11,000 athletes expected along with 90,000 volunteers, and hundreds of thousands of officials and spectators from all over the world.US swimming star Ryan Lochte summed up the combination of disappointment and relief expressed by most athletes, after many had voiced anger at being asked to continue training during the pandemic.“I was a little pissed off because I’ve been training my butt off and I’ve been feeling great,” the 12-time Olympic medallist told the Los Angeles Times.“But this whole thing is way bigger than me,” Lochte added.There were similar feelings on the streets of Tokyo, which had won widespread praise for its preparations, with tickets in high demand and venues completed well ahead of schedule.“It is disappointing for sure, but when you think about the health of athletes as well as spectators, I understand,” IT engineer Momoko Doku told AFP on the bustling Shibuya crossing.The Japanese media were also broadly supportive, although the Tokyo Shimbun daily screamed “surprise and embarrassment”.“It is like all the efforts of the last seven years are back to square one,” the Nikkei business daily said.LET US HOPEThe Olympic torch relay, due to begin from Fukushima Thursday, has also been postponed but the flame will stay in the area until it is safe to begin.Organisers have to wrestle with a host of unanswered questions: are the venues still available? What to do with ticket-holders and volunteers? How to fit the Games into a crowded 2021 sporting schedule?The athlete’s village was due to be renovated into more than 4,000 luxury apartments, hundreds of which have already been snapped up. Tens of thousands of hotel rooms will need to be cancelled and rebooked.“I cannot tell you what the situation is,” Bach said when asked about how the postponement might affect the village.“It’s one of the many thousand of questions the taskforce has to address.”Japan and the organising committee were spending $12.6 billion on the Games and experts say they may need to spend around half that again to rearrange the event — before hopefully recouping the losses when the Olympics are held.Tokyo 2020 president Yoshiro Mori, an 82-year former prime minister and cancer survivor, pointed to his own health battles as inspiration for the difficult times ahead.“We have no choice but to have hope. I myself suffered cancer… But I was saved by a new drug. I am here, allowed to live."
Web Desk,There is a lesson in all this: We take the game too seriously,2020-03-24,"MUMBAI: It is not long ago that we were planning for Cheteshwar Pujara to come down to Chennai and play league cricket for us. My team, Mylapore RC, was in a relegation battle in the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association Division One, and Pujara’s team, Saurashtra, had just won the Ranji Trophy on March 13. He wanted to come, but he was not 100% well, having fallen sick after returning from New Zealand. We managed to avoid relegation without him, but he had plans for other Saurashtra players to come down and play league cricket in Chennai because he wants Saurashtra to get even stronger when they defend the title next season.The next season seems so far away now.Life is very different now. I recently read Ian Chappell’s piece on how climate change might affect cricket. We saw it in December 2015, when we were playing in Delhi, and our friends and families were stranded in man-made floods in Chennai. We are the only species that goes against the alignment of nature. And we are supposed to be the smartest. Well, even before we could face the full brunt of climate change, something else has stopped cricket and life.Right now is the time to find solutions instead of blaming this country or that country. The solution for the time being seems to be social-distancing and patience. Hopefully science finds a breakthrough soon. There is a lesson in all this: we take the game too seriously. There are far bigger things than the game that can hamper it.For a change, despite so much free time on hand, I haven’t thought much about the game. For once the craving to watch something on TV that is cricket is not there. I don’t know how this has happened, but it has. I have not gone on YouTube looking for old clips either.Nor am I missing the game as such except the rigours and tensions of playing the sport, the pressure of it, just trying to compete. Every day you are looking forward to something. If you go to practise, you are looking forward to, say, the IPL, the TNPL, or club cricket. To some cricket. Tomorrow if I have to turn up at the nets, I don’t know what to look forward to. There is a freshness to that, to be honest. You don’t have to look forward to anything. Just turn up and enjoy the game. Need to bowl the ball or hit the ball and not worry about what is in front of you. Obviously I am not going to go out to bat or bowl in the near future, but if I do in isolation, I think it will be great.We stopped all operations at our academy, Gen-Next Cricket Institute, two weeks ago, but now we are getting questions all the time from parents who don’t know what to do with their kids all day. So we are trying to work around it by creating video tutorials. We are discussing that on our WhatsApp groups and on teleconference. My wife, Prithi, is involved in the planning of it.Otherwise, staying confined has been almost idyllic, almost as if it’s a message from nature. When the lockdown began, I was still adjusting to the heat of Chennai after a month spent in New Zealand. And I was doing so while playing the TNCA league.Now we have built a routine around the kids’ routines. When I wake up, at 5.30-6am, my younger daughter is almost awake. We brush our teeth together, go through other morning rituals, have some green tea, and then we both take a speaker and go to our terrace, which has a gym and an organic garden. I do my cycling and weights while she listens to music.I don’t remember the last time I saw and heard so many birds in my life in a city. There is so much chirping. I don’t know if I am imagining it, but definitely the traffic has been much lighter. There is a sense of freshness in the air, and who knows, maybe some of the birds have come back.By the time we come back down, Prithi and my older daughter have woken up. We have coffee together, have our breakfast and then get into our routines. Outside the academy work, we read or watch series or movies. Prithi has been binge-watching Sex and the City, while I am trying to convince her to watch Game Of Thrones again. She will, of course, tell you I am lying.Which I am. We have actually been watching Queen, a series based on the life of J Jayalalithaa. I have been reading one of the best books ever written, Ponniyin Selvan by Kalki. It is a book in five parts, so I have enough reading material should the lockdown be long.My parents live with us but they are busy people so they are not short of things to do. My mother has been finishing up some paperwork, but we try to take an hour every day to play carrom together, which we usually do when we are both home.So far there has not been any cabin fever. We are not yet at each other’s throats. We are even trying to manufacture our own alcohol-based hand rub, thanks to Prithi’s Instagram friend Sandhya Ramesh, who is a science assistant editor at the Print. Her research on coronavirus has been helpful to us in wading through the false information floating around.If we get bored of each other, we have a small nap after lunch. When we get up, depending on what the kids are doing, how much energy they have, we try to entertain them with puzzles and Lego. They usually get their outdoors time in the evening, which has to happen in the terrace garden now. They pick vegetables, admire some flowers. Then back to the evening routines – baths, PJs, dinner.One good thing is that we have been sleeping on time. Because we have so much time through the day to spend with everyone in the house, we don’t feel the need to catch up on stuff at night.If we survive this pandemic, surely there is a lesson somewhere in there."
Web Desk,"Olympic chief, Japan hold talks as pressure grows to postpone Games",2020-03-24,"TOKYO: Olympic chief Thomas Bach will hold talks with Japanese leader Shinzo Abe on Tuesday as they come under intense pressure to act quickly and postpone the Tokyo Summer Games because of the growing coronavirus pandemic.Bach will hold telephone discussions with Abe, Tokyo’s governor, the head of the organising committee and Japan’s Olympics minister at a time when teams, athletes and sports bodies are all calling for a delay.The United States became the latest team to urge a postponement of the July 24 start date, a day after Canada and Australia both pulled out and with Britain also expected to withdraw.The virus lockdown has shut down competition, including Olympic qualifiers, and made training not just difficult but also dangerous, as athletes risk contracting or spreading COVID-19.IOC officials are studying a postponement, among other options, but they have said a decision would be “premature” four months from the scheduled start. They will make an announcement within four weeks.“My interpretation of the IOC’s communications is they don’t want to cancel, and they don’t think they can continue with the July 24 date,” senior IOC official Dick Pound told AFP.“So you’re looking at the ‘P’ word — postponement.”Lockdowns across the globe are affecting 1.7 billion people, while coronavirus deaths have topped 16,200 with more than 377,000 declared infections in 175 countries and territories, according to an AFP tally.The US Olympic team came out in favour of postponement after a survey of 1,780 US athletes found an overwhelming majority — 68 percent — backed delaying the Games.“Our most important conclusion from this broad athlete response is that even if the current significant health concerns could be alleviated by late summer, the enormous disruptions to the training environment, doping controls and qualification process can’t be overcome in a satisfactory manner,” the United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee said.USA Gymnastics also said it was “adding our voice to the chorus advocating for postponement”, after USA Swimming and USA Track and Field had already urged the US Olympic committee to press for a delay.Meanwhile, British Olympic Association chairman Hugh Robertson said Britain is poised to follow Canada and Australia by pulling out of the Games.“I think it is very simple,” said Robertson. “If the virus continues as predicted by the Government, I don’t think there is any way we can send a team.”UNACCEPTABLE, IRRESPONSIBLEWith opposition to the July start reaching deafening levels, athletes questioned why the IOC needed weeks to come to a decision. The Olympic torch relay is due to start in Japan on Thursday.“Such a response is unacceptable, irresponsible, and once again ignores the rights of athletes,” said Global Athlete, an organisation which aims to speak for sports competitors.British cyclist Callum Skinner strongly criticised IOC president Bach, accusing him of placing his own interests first.“Bach’s stubbornness and arrogance has spectacularly failed in this instance and he has weakened the Olympic movement,” Skinner wrote on Twitter.“This isn’t the first time he has put his own motives above the athletes and the movement.”British hurdler Dai Greene said the “dither and delay” was “obscene” while Ed Warner, the chairman-designate of British wheelchair rugby, said the IOC had misjudged the mood.World Athletics said it was prepared to shift its world championships, scheduled for August 6-15 next year in Oregon, to accommodate a potential Olympics next summer, seen as the most likely option.But experts warn that shifting the Tokyo Games, which are seven years in the planning and have a price tag of $12.6 billion, is no simple matter.“It is mind-bogglingly complex to make a sudden change after seven years of preparation for the biggest sporting event in the world,” Michael Payne, the IOC’s former head of marketing, told AFP."
Web Desk,Thousands flock to see Olympic flame in Japan despite virus fears,2020-03-22,"TOKYO: Tens of thousands of people flocked to a cauldron with the Olympic flame in northeastern Japan over the weekend despite concerns about the coronavirus pandemic. The flame arrived in Japan to a scaled-down welcoming ceremony on Friday as doubts grew over whether the 2020 Tokyo Olympics will go ahead on schedule as the deadly virus causes chaos around the world.The pandemic has already shredded the global sports calendar, with top sports leagues suspended and major tournaments postponed.More than 50,000 people on Saturday queued to watch the flame displayed at Sendai station in Miyagi, chosen as part of the “Recovery Olympics” to showcase the region’s revival after the 2011 earthquake, tsunami and nuclear meltdown.Some had to stay in a 500-meter (1,650-foot) queue for several hours, local media said.Many of them wore masks as they took pictures with the cherry blossom-shaped cauldron.“I queued for three hours but watching the Olympic flame was greatly encouraging,” a 70-year-old woman told public broadcaster NHK. But organisers, concerned about the bigger-than-expected gathering, have warned the viewing event could be suspended if a crowd becomes “extremely dense”, local media reported.The nationwide torch relay begins on March 26, starting from the J-Village sports complex in Fukushima that was used as a base for workers during the 2011 nuclear disaster.But organisers have been forced to scale back the relay, closing daily ceremonies to the public and urging spectators to “avoid forming crowds” along the route."
Web Desk,WADA issues dope testing guidelines amid coronavirus pandemic,2020-03-21,"MONTREAL: The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) issued new guidelines on Friday to facilitate continued testing amid the constraints of the coronavirus pandemic. Noting that the spread of COVID-19 had evolved into “an even greater health and societal emergency” since its March 6 communique, WADA urged Anti-Doping Organizations (ADOs) to act in accordance with restrictions placed by local health authorities “to ensure proper protection of athletes and doping control personnel, while protecting the integrity of doping control programs, particularly in the lead-up to the 2020 Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games.”WADA’s latest guidelines advise anti-doping organizations to make sure that sample collectors are free from any symptoms of illness.Collectors should also ask athletes if they have any symptoms or if they or anyone at the collection site are in the groups thought to be at heightened risk from COVID-19.If test collection personnel are found to have contracted the virus, athletes they tested should be informed and vice versa, WADA said.Protective wear such as masks should be used and work surfaces disinfected, and if local conditions limit what testing can occur then ADOs should “consider focusing their testing program on targeted athletes from high risk sports and disciplines,” WADA said.In locations where testing programs can’t continue, WADA said, it and other anti-doping organizations and sports federations will work together “once the situation begins to return to normal” to identify gaps in testing “particularly as it relates to the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games.”WADA said anti-doping organizations should continue to obtain information on whereabouts of athletes normally gathered to facilitate out-of-competition testing.Athletes are still responsible for obtaining therapeutic use exemptions and “should be reminded that they can still be tested at any place, any time,” WADA said.With some WADA accredited laboratories already closed and others likely to follow suit, WADA said testing organizations should contact the Montreal-based organization for information on what labs might be able to receive samples.“While there are no plans to change existing requirements under the World Anti-Doping Program, WADA fully acknowledges the complexities of this unprecedented situation and will ensure its compliance monitoring program provides a level of flexibility and understanding based on the circumstances,” WADA said."
Web Desk,"All PSL 2020 participants tested negative for coronavirus, announces PCB",2020-03-19,"LAHORE: The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) on Thursday confirmed that none of the 128 individuals – including Pakistan Super League (PSL) 2020 players, support staff, match officials, broadcasters and team owners who tested for coronavirus on Mar 17 – tested positive for the pandemic.A press release from the PCB said that the tests were conducted as part of the PCB’s duty of care, following a suspected COVID-19 case in one of the players.The press release said that 17 tests — conducted on the Multan Sultans on March 16 — also came back negative.Meanwhile, the remaining 25 foreign players, support staff and match officials have already departed for their respective destinations.Commenting on the matter, PCB Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Wasim Khan said: “It was absolutely critical for the integrity and credibility of PSL and the PCB that everyone was tested [for coronavirus].”“With this in view, PCB is pleased with the outcome of the results and happy that all these players and officials have rejoined their families without any health and safety doubts or concerns,” Khan said, adding that the PCB will continue to put precautionary measures in place for its employees.“The PCB prays that normalcy returns quickly to our society so that playing fields can once again witness resumption of healthy activities,” Khan concluded."
Web Desk,Coronavirus: USTA has not ruled out US Open date switch,2020-03-18,"The United States Tennis Association (USTA) says it has not ruled out the possibility of switching the US Open to a later date, after the French Open was moved back to September.USTA says it is assessing all options but is not currently implementing any changes to its schedule.The US Open, which is played in New York, is due to begin on 31 August.USTA also criticised the French Tennis Federation’s unilateral decision to move the dates of Roland Garros.The event in Paris was due to be played from 24 May to 7 June, but instead will take place from 20 September to 4 October.That means it will begin just one week after the completion of the US Open.“At a time when the world is coming together, we recognise that such a decision should not be made unilaterally,” the statement said.“Therefore the USTA would only [act] in full consultation with the other Grand Slam tournaments, the WTA and ATP, the ITF and our partners, including the Laver Cup.”The new dates for the French Open mean it will clash with a string of ATP and WTA events, including the start of the traditional Asian leg of the season.It is also scheduled at the same time as the Laver Cup – the annual men’s team event between Europe and the Rest of the World.The competition was the brainchild of Roger Federer’s Team8 agency, and is supported by the US Open, the Australian Open and the ATP Tour.This year’s event is already sold out, and the response from the Laver Cup to the French Federation’s decision was curt.“This announcement came as a surprise to us and our partners,” it said in a statement. “It raises many questions and we are assessing the situation.“At this time, we want our fans, sponsors, broadcasters, staff, volunteers, players and the great city of Boston to know that we intend to hold Laver Cup 2020 as currently scheduled.”The French Federation said on Thursday that the “current confinement measures have made it impossible for us to continue with our preparations”.In a conference call with reporters, it said it would be unthinkable for the season’s only clay-court Grand Slam not to go ahead.It said it chose the fortnight that would cause the least inconvenience to the other tours, but admitted it simply informed them – rather than consulted them – about the decision.Britain’s Jamie Murray was among a group of players to express his surprise.“Strong move by French Open/FFT to move to end of Sept,” the Scot posted on Twitter.“I thought the powers that be in tennis were supposed to be all about working together these days?“The frustration will be that the FFT acted on its own with no regard for any of the other stakeholders in tennis.”There is already friction between the Grand Slams and some of the players, who do not feel they receive a large enough share of the profits generated.Meanwhile, the All England Club says it “continues to plan” for Wimbledon and the grass-court season – albeit it with a limited onsite team.But chief executive Richard Lewis said in a statement that “it remains a continuously evolving situation and we will act responsibly, in the best interests of wider society”.This year’s Wimbledon is due to take place between 29 June and 12 July."
Web Desk,Ibrahimovic launches fundraisers to help fight coronavirus pandemic,2020-03-18,"Zlatan Ibrahimovic has launched a fundraiser to help fight coronavirus and has called on fellow footballers to help “kick this virus away”.The AC Milan striker plays in Italy, the country so far worst affected by the pandemic other than China.It appears Ibrahimovic has made two 50,000 euro (£46,054) donations.“Italy has always given me so much and, in this dramatic moment, I want to give back even more to this country that I love,” Ibrahimovic said on Instagram.“I count on the generosity of my colleagues, of all professional athletes and of those who want to make a small or large donation according to their possibilities, to kick this virus away.“Together we can really help hospitals and doctors and nurses who selflessly work every day to save our lives. Because today we are the ones cheering for them!“Let’s together kick the coronavirus away and win this match!”An hour after Ibrahimovic’s post, the fund had raised 109,652 euros (£100,999).And with Zlatan being Zlatan, there was a classic line from the veteran striker.He finished his post by saying: “And remember: if the virus don’t go to Zlatan, Zlatan goes to the virus!”"
Web Desk,"Footballers could face mass layoffs over coronavirus, warns FIFPRO",2020-03-18,"LONDON: Football is facing its first economic crisis for decades with the prospect of mass layoffs of players if nothing is done to bail out clubs left without matches by the coronavirus pandemic, the global players’ union FIFPRO said on Tuesday.Professional football has been wiped off the map for weeks, maybe months, after all the major leagues, cups and international competitions were suspended, culminating in the postponement of Euro 2020 and Copa America on Tuesday.“There is no doubt that the health of everybody is the primary concern but the concerns of players are shifting very quickly towards their livelihoods,” FIFPRO general secretary Jonas Baer-Hoffmann told reporters in a conference call.“For the vast majority, a loss of income for two or three months is as threatening as for any other worker.“The consequences for our industry will potentially turn ugly very quickly, so any co-ordinated action is very, very important.” Baer-Hoffmann said that football had continued to grow during the 2008 financial crisis but the omens were not so favourable this time.“For the first time in decades, we are facing a real economic crisis in football,” he added. “There are simply not a lot of reserves that we can bank on. We know how club budgets are managed, they are always on the line of liquidity.“If we don’t respond very quickly to stabilise the cash flow we could see mass layoffs of players and staff members within weeks.”He added that while clubs in the big leagues should make it through the crisis, it was a different story in smaller markets.However, Baer-Hoffmann welcomed the decision to postpone Euro 2020 to give the chance for the current domestic seasons to be played out during the summer — if the health situation permitted them to re-start by then.He also welcomed a statement from FIFA president Gianni Infantino to propose a global assistance fund to help “members of the community” affected by the crisis.UEFA, meanwhile, has set up a working group to propose measures to mitigate the financial effects of the pandemic.“This is what we were hoping they would be doing,” he said. He added that players would need time to get into shape once football was able to re-start again.“The players will not be able to just walk out of their apartments and back on the pitch,” he said.“If they are in home quarantine for two months, they will need time to get back on their feet.”"
Web Desk,Coronavirus outbreak: UEFA proposes postponing Euro 2020,2020-03-18,"UEFA has decided to postpone the Euro 2020 by a year, sources said on Tuesday, as Europe becomes the epicentre of the novel coronavirus and various cities across the continent remain under lockdown due to the virus.The source”s confirmation of the proposal came after the Norwegian FA tweeted that the new plan is for the tournament to take place from June 11 to July 11 next year, turning Euro 2020 into Euro 2021. The proposal was made as UEFA held crisis talks with its national associations as well as clubs and players bodies via videoconference on Tuesday.The proposal is likely to be ratified at a UEFA Executive Committee meeting in the afternoon.The move comes with most of Europe”s domestic leagues having ground to a halt over the last week as football confronts its biggest issue in modern times.The UEFA Champions League and Europa League competitions for clubs have also been suspended, with both still in the last-16 stage, but postponing the European Championship for national sides means they, along with national leagues, will have the chance to be completed, assuming travel restrictions are lifted in time.Europe has become the epicentre of the coronavirus pandemic, with France on Tuesday having joined Italy and Spain in applying strict lockdown measures and European leaders also planning to ban all non-essential travel into the continent.More than 2,100 people have died in Italy, which was supposed to host the opening game of Euro 2020 in Rome.The head of the Italian football federation, Gabriele Gravina, had already led calls for the Euros to be postponed.Euro 2020 was due to be held in 12 different cities across the continent, from as far apart as Dublin and Bilbao, to Saint Petersburg and Baku.The semi-finals and final were due to be played in London and there would considerable knock-on effects to postponing the competition — the women”s European Championship is scheduled to run from July 7 to August 1 next year in England, with the final at Wembley.UEFA have also planned to stage an Under-21 Euros in Hungary and Slovenia in June next year.Twenty of the 24 teams set to take part in the Euro have already qualified, but play-offs to determine the final four participants, due to be played later this month, will have to take place at a later date.– Collision course with FIFA? – Moving the Euro by a year also puts UEFA on a collision course with football”s world governing body FIFA, whose president Gianni Infantino has planned to stage the inaugural edition of his highly lucrative Club World Cup in June and July next year in China.Some of Europe’s top club sides are expected to be involved.“FIFA will keep in regular contact with all relevant stakeholders during this difficult period and look to find in due course solutions in a spirit of cooperation, taking into account the interests of football at all levels,” Infantino wrote in an open letter on Monday.“Health first and sporting solidarity should be the key principles guiding decision-making at this important moment in time and I am sure that the whole football community will live up to the great values of our sport.” – ”Final Four” proposal – As for its flagship club competitions, UEFA may come to a decision to try to complete the Champions League and Europa League by curtailing the competitions, meaning ties up to the semi-finals could be decided in one-off matches.Reports on Tuesday also indicated both tournaments could conclude with a ”Final Four” meeting in the scheduled host cities — Istanbul for the Champions League and Gdansk in Poland for the Europa League, meaning the two-legged semi-finals would be removed.Financially, UEFA will undoubtedly prefer postponements to outright cancellations, or playing matches behind closed doors, even if it is impossible at this stage to know when club football can resume.The last European Championship, held in France in 2016, generated total revenue of close to two billion euros ($2.2 billion) for UEFA.“The financial stakes are enormous,” according to one senior figure in the international game.“We know that FIFA has significant reserves but we don”t know about UEFA or the different leagues."
Web Desk,Coronavirus scare delays French Open to September,2020-03-18,"The coronavirus pandemic has pushed the French Open to September 20, according to organisers, who added that it would then conclude on October 4.The Grand Slam event was to have taken place from May 24 to June 7, but organisers said Tuesday: “The current confinement measures have made it impossible for us to continue with our preparations and, as a result, we are unable to hold the tournament on the dates originally planned.”The new dates would mean the tournament would start just one week after the US Open, if that event remains in its scheduled slot.“The whole world is affected by the public health crisis connected with COVID-19. In order to ensure the health and safety of everyone involved in organising the tournament, the French Tennis Federation has made the decision to hold the 2020 edition of Roland-Garros from 20th September to 4th October 2020,” read a statement.“In order to act responsibly and protect the health of its employees, service providers and suppliers during the organisation period, the FFT has chosen the only option that will allow them to maintain the 2020 edition of the tournament while joining the fight against COVID-19.”FFT president Bernard Giudicelli said: “We have made a difficult yet brave decision in this unprecedented situation, which has evolved greatly since last weekend. We are acting responsibly, and must work together in the fight to ensure everybody’s health and safety.”Last week, the ATP announced it was suspending the men’s tennis tour for six weeks “due to escalating health and safety issues” arising from spread of the virus.All events on the ATP Tour and second-tier ATP Challenger Tour are cancelled until April 27.The International Tennis Federation, which runs the lower tiers of the professional game as well as the junior and senior circuits, followed the ATP by announcing there would be no tournaments on any of its tours until April 20 at the earliest.The WTA Tour said Monday it was suspending the women’s season until May 2, having already called off events in Bogota, Guadalajara, and Charleston.Next month’s Fed Cup finals in Budapest have also been postponed indefinitely.The revamped 12-team women’s competition scheduled for April 14-19 as well as a series of play-off ties were both put on hold."
Web Desk,India’s Chand says pre-Olympics training fraught with virus fears,2020-03-18,"After battling in court to be able to run and fighting discrimination when she came out as gay, Indian sprinter Dutee Chand now has to overcome the fear of training in a pandemic to maintain her Olympic hopes. Chand, who was banned from competing internationally because of the hyperandrogenism gene condition, wants the Tokyo Games to go ahead even if she has not yet made the women’s 100 metre qualifying time of 11.15sec.But running close to other Indian athletes is fraught as the deadly coronavirus spreads across the country of 1.3 billion people.“There is fear of catching the coronavirus because we train together and if somebody catches it then it is going to spread,” the 24-year-old told AFP over phone from a camp in the eastern city of Bhubaneswar.“I am not going out other than to train. Home-cooked food is the order of the day, I don’t eat out at all.“Washing hands has become a 24-hour activity. So hopefully we will overcome the crisis.”But the global sporting lockdown caused by the mounting death toll means there are no races for Chand to run and reach the qualifying time.– ‘Training is affected’ –Despite mounting doubts about the event, the Games are still scheduled to start on July 24 and time is running out.“Of course with all the meetings cancelled it has become tough for me to qualify,” said Chand, whose personal best is currently 11.22sec. “I have to clock 11.15 seconds to make the cut and I am worried how I am going to make it if international events don’t happen.”With just three reported deaths, India has so far been spared a pandemic that has killed almost 8,000 around the world. But virus fears are widespread and travel is increasingly difficult in the country.“Training is affected because the state government has shut down all facilities though we have got special permission to train because of the Olympics.“But it affects us mentally as schools, colleges, offices are closed. We don’t know whether the Olympics will happen or when the next meeting will be.”One of six children born to a poor family, Chand is not new to beating the odds. Her battle against gender testing when she was a teenager after showing elevated levels of testosterone made international headlines.On top of her four-year battle with the world athletics body over hyperandrogenism — the same condition that affects South Africa’s two-time Olympic champion Caster Semenya — Chand last year became the first top Indian athlete to reveal she is in a same-sex relationship.The revelation prompted a backlash in her home village in conservative rural India, and Chand said she had been finding it hard to overcome the prejudice.At the 2016 Rio Olympics, Chand became only the fifth Indian to participate in the women’s 100m, though she did not get past the heats.After the Court of Arbitration for Sport definitively ruled in her favour, Chand went to the 2018 Asian Games in Jakarta, where she won silver medals in the 100m and 200m.Chand said Indian runners want to test themselves against the best at the Olympics.“But it is tough to qualify for the 100m in India,” she said.“We face tough competition from the best athletes from other countries.“But fingers crossed, we have two months left and if there is a competition, hopefully I can make it.”"
Web Desk,"Liverpool’s Milner goes viral, snaps coronavirus gloom",2020-03-18,"LIVERPOOL: Liverpool star James Milner has become a social media star in playing up to his no frills image by filming himself doing domestic chores whilst the Premier League is suspended due to the coronavirus outbreak. The 34-year-old former England midfielder first posted images of himself sorting his tea bags one by one as a response to team-mate Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain posting a glamorous video of himself and his pop star girlfriend Perrie Edwards dancing on their stairs.The players have been left to their own devices after team training was halted due to the coronavirus pandemic.“‘Hey @Alex_OxChambo Barrels of laughs here in Milner household as well – rationing the tea bags for the week #crazydays #somuchtogetonwith #notgotthemovestocompete’.” tweeted Milner on Monday.After rationing his tea bags, the 61-times capped Milner took to his garden and filmed himself nose down to the lawn clipping the grass with a pair of scissors and a ruler to ensure each blade was the same height.“Now the tea bags are sorted I’ve got time to level out this lawn,'” he tweeted.“‘Wonder if I can borrow Anfield’s ‘Keep off the Grass sign’.”The Premier League is in abeyance since last Friday after both Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta and Chelsea winger Callum Hudson-Odoi tested positive for coronavirus.Liverpool have been left tantalisingly close to their first ever Premier League title — they are 25 points clear of two-time defending champions Manchester City with nine matches remaining.The English Premier League are due to meet on Thursday to consider their options with the postponement of Euro 2020 until next year at least giving them some leeway in resuming the domestic season."
Web Desk,Chelsea open up hotel to healthcare staff,2020-03-18,"LONDON: Chelsea will provide free accommodation to staff of Britain’s National Health Service in a hotel at the club’s Stamford Bridge stadium during the coronavirus pandemic. The Premier League club’s owner, Roman Abramovich, will fund the service that will allow medical professionals in London a chance to rest if they are unable to travel home or face long commutes.The scheme will be put in place for two months, but could be extended if needed.There have been 1,950 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 71 deaths in Britain.“It was decided the best way Chelsea can assist the NHS is to provide accommodation for NHS staff. Mr Abramovich will be covering the costs of providing the accommodation,” Chelsea said in a statement.“Many of the medical staff will be working long shifts and may not be able to travel home or would otherwise have to make long commutes. Local accommodation helps maintain the health and well-being of this crucial personnel at this critical time.”Chelsea do not know when they will next return to the pitch, with the Premier League suspended until at least April 4, although that date is set to be pushed back at a meeting of Premier League clubs on Thursday.But in the absence of football, the Blues are the latest club to make an offer of community support at a time of crisis.Liverpool players contributed to a £40,000 ($48,000) donation from the club to help keep local foodbanks running.Aston Villa and Brighton were among the clubs to donate food prepared for last weekend’s matches to homeless charities.Fourth-tier club Stevenage are preparing a community careline that will help isolated local residents over 70 with day-to-day needs such as delivery of food and prescriptions."
Web Desk,Home News ‘Putting us in danger’ – athlete concerns grow ahead of Olympics,2020-03-18,"Olympic pole vault champion Katerina Stefanidi said athletes were being forced to take health risks as competitors started to speak out about holding the Tokyo Games during the coronavirus crisis. Stefanidi and British heptathlete Katarina Johnson-Thompson both voiced concerns after the International Olympic Committee said it was “fully committed” to running the Games as scheduled from July 24.An IOC member called the body’s stance “insensitive and irresponsible”, saying athletes were facing “anxiety and heartbreak” as they try to train during the virus emergency.Stefanidi, one of Greece’s most prominent athletes, was scheduled to hand the ceremonial flame to Japanese officials before the Greek leg of the torch relay was scrapped over COVID-19.“The IOC wants us to keep risking our health, our family’s health and public health to train every day?” she tweeted.“You are putting us in danger right now, today, not in 4 months.”On Tuesday, minutes before the IOC statement, the Euro 2020 football tournament was delayed for a year, bowing to the crisis that has paralysed Europe and drastically curtailed international travel.Olympic qualifying tournaments are among the swathe of sports events that have been cancelled or postponed, with only 57 percent of athletes booking their places so far.“It’s unbelievable,” said Stefanidi. “What about team sports that have to train together? What about swimming? What about gymnastics that they touch the same objects? “There is zero consideration of the risk they are putting us in right now.”Johnson-Thompson, the world heptathlon champion, criticised the IOC for telling athletes to train “as best they can”, saying it was at odds with stringent government health measures.“I feel under pressure to train and keep the same routine which is impossible,” she wrote on Twitter.“It’s difficult (to) approach the season when everything has changed in the lead-up apart from the ultimate deadline,” added the Briton.– ‘Bigger than the Olympics’ –Doubts are increasingly being expressed about holding the Olympics on time, after the outbreak that first exploded in China spread to Asia and then worldwide, infecting almost 200,000 people and killing 7,900.On Wednesday an Olympic gymnastics qualifier in Tokyo, doubling as a test event, became the latest competition to be cancelled. A day earlier, the deputy head of Japan’s Olympic committee said he had tested positive for coronavirus.But the IOC insisted “there is no need for any drastic decisions at this stage” adding that “any speculation at this moment would be counter-productive”.Hayley Wickenheiser, a Canadian IOC member with four ice hockey gold medals, warned “this crisis is bigger than even the Olympics”.“From an athlete perspective, I can only imagine and try to empathise with the anxiety and heartbreak athletes are feeling right now,” she said in a statement.“The uncertainty of not knowing where you’re going to train tomorrow as facilities close and qualification events are cancelled all over the world would be terrible if you’ve been training your whole life for this.”Wickenheiser added: “I think the IOC insisting this will move ahead, with such conviction, is insensitive and irresponsible given the state of humanity.”Middle-distance runner Jess Judd also criticised the IOC advice on training, while fellow British track athlete Guy Learmonth has told The Guardian that the Olympics should be postponed."
Web Desk,Tokyo 1940: The Games that became the ‘Missing Olympics’,2020-03-17,"TOKYO: Fears are growing that this year’s Olympics may be postponed or axed because of the coronavirus pandemic but Japan has been here before — the cancelled summer Games of 1940 were also due to be hosted in Tokyo. Japan’s military aggression in Asia forced the annulment of what became known as the “Missing Olympics” after the Games were switched to Helsinki before finally being scrapped because of World War II.Tokyo officials originally touted a bid for the 1940 Games as a way to show the city had recovered from the devastating 1923 earthquake, according to author David Goldblatt in his history of the Olympics entitled “The Games”.In much the same way, Japan has framed the 2020 Olympics as the “Recovery Games” — a chance to show the country is back on its feet after the catastrophic 2011 triple disaster of earthquake, tsunami and nuclear meltdown.Tokyo’s 1940 bid was spearheaded by Jigoro Kano, the founder of modern judo and first Japanese member of the International Olympic Committee, who stressed the importance of bringing the Games to Asia for the first time.“I carry a grave resolve. The Olympics should naturally come to Japan. If they don’t, the reason for this must be something unjust,” said Kano in his plea to the IOC. The Japanese had a special reason for wanting to celebrate 1940, as it coincided with the 2,600th year since the enthronement of the nation’s legendary first emperor, Jimmu.Tokyo launched an official bid in 1932 and found themselves up against Rome and Helsinki.Japan engaged in a fierce lobbying campaign that included pleading with Italy’s fascist dictator Benito Mussolini to step aside in their favour.“In the you-scratch-my-back kind of deal that has become the norm in international sports politics, Mussolini announced with unusual candour, ‘We will waive our claim for 1940 in favour of Japan if Japan will support Italy’s effort to get the XIIIth Olympiad for Rome in 1944,” wrote Goldblatt.With just Tokyo and Helsinki left standing, the IOC plumped for the Japanese capital by 37 votes to 26.CULTURAL DIPLOMACYBefore the bid had been tabled, Japan in 1931 invaded the Chinese province of Manchuria and two years later withdrew from the League of Nations — the precursor to the United Nations — after the body refused to sanction the occupation.The Olympic bid was therefore also an attempt to shore up international diplomacy, according to Asato Ikeda, assistant professor at Fordham University, New York, who has written about the 1940 Games.Japan’s bid was “part of its international cultural diplomacy in order to ameliorate the relationship with the Western democratic nations, especially Britain and the United States,” Ikeda wrote in an essay in the Asia-Pacific Journal. As preparations for the Games gathered pace, a schedule was drawn up and posters were printed. The Opening Ceremony was set for September 21, 1940.There were some hiccups though, including questions about whether the Emperor could declare the Games open, as the Japanese then held him to be semi-divine and therefore unable to be seen and heard by ordinary citizens.NO OTHER COURSEAs diplomatic pressure grew on Japan from outside, there was increasing clamour inside the country for cash to be diverted for military purposes.Japanese diplomats at the time voiced concern in cables back to Tokyo that powers such as Britain and the United States could boycott the Games over Japan’s war-like activity.Yet, in words familiar to those following the story of the 2020 Games, Tokyo insisted the show would go on. Barker cites a cable from Tokyo City Hall to the IOC which said: “The citizens of Tokyo are doing their utmost to make the 1940 Games a success.”But the Japanese Olympic Committee eventually bowed to the inevitable and forfeited in July 1938, saying what they euphemistically called “the trouble with China” had made staging the Games impossible.“The organising committee and the people of Japan were deeply disappointed in having to give up the Games, but, in the circumstances, no other course was open,” the “Olympic News” bulletin published in Tokyo wrote at the time.“With the worsening international relations and increasing military activities in the Asian continent, the cancellation might not have been that surprising,” Ikeda told AFP.The Winter Games, due to be held in the northern Japanese city of Sapporo, were also scrapped and the war put paid to the proposed rescheduling in the Finnish capital.The next time the Olympic torch was lit was for London in 1948, four years after the city had originally been due to host. But Japan, as a defeated power, was excluded and Helsinki staged the next summer Games in 1952.Tokyo finally became the first Asian city to host the Olympic Games in 1964."
Web Desk,Tokyo 1940: The Games that became the ‘Missing Olympics’,2020-03-17,"TOKYO: Fears are growing that this year’s Olympics may be postponed or axed because of the coronavirus pandemic but Japan has been here before — the cancelled summer Games of 1940 were also due to be hosted in Tokyo. Japan’s military aggression in Asia forced the annulment of what became known as the “Missing Olympics” after the Games were switched to Helsinki before finally being scrapped because of World War II.Tokyo officials originally touted a bid for the 1940 Games as a way to show the city had recovered from the devastating 1923 earthquake, according to author David Goldblatt in his history of the Olympics entitled “The Games”.In much the same way, Japan has framed the 2020 Olympics as the “Recovery Games” — a chance to show the country is back on its feet after the catastrophic 2011 triple disaster of earthquake, tsunami and nuclear meltdown.Tokyo’s 1940 bid was spearheaded by Jigoro Kano, the founder of modern judo and first Japanese member of the International Olympic Committee, who stressed the importance of bringing the Games to Asia for the first time.“I carry a grave resolve. The Olympics should naturally come to Japan. If they don’t, the reason for this must be something unjust,” said Kano in his plea to the IOC. The Japanese had a special reason for wanting to celebrate 1940, as it coincided with the 2,600th year since the enthronement of the nation’s legendary first emperor, Jimmu.Tokyo launched an official bid in 1932 and found themselves up against Rome and Helsinki.Japan engaged in a fierce lobbying campaign that included pleading with Italy’s fascist dictator Benito Mussolini to step aside in their favour.“In the you-scratch-my-back kind of deal that has become the norm in international sports politics, Mussolini announced with unusual candour, ‘We will waive our claim for 1940 in favour of Japan if Japan will support Italy’s effort to get the XIIIth Olympiad for Rome in 1944,” wrote Goldblatt.With just Tokyo and Helsinki left standing, the IOC plumped for the Japanese capital by 37 votes to 26.CULTURAL DIPLOMACYBefore the bid had been tabled, Japan in 1931 invaded the Chinese province of Manchuria and two years later withdrew from the League of Nations — the precursor to the United Nations — after the body refused to sanction the occupation.The Olympic bid was therefore also an attempt to shore up international diplomacy, according to Asato Ikeda, assistant professor at Fordham University, New York, who has written about the 1940 Games.Japan’s bid was “part of its international cultural diplomacy in order to ameliorate the relationship with the Western democratic nations, especially Britain and the United States,” Ikeda wrote in an essay in the Asia-Pacific Journal. As preparations for the Games gathered pace, a schedule was drawn up and posters were printed. The Opening Ceremony was set for September 21, 1940.There were some hiccups though, including questions about whether the Emperor could declare the Games open, as the Japanese then held him to be semi-divine and therefore unable to be seen and heard by ordinary citizens.NO OTHER COURSEAs diplomatic pressure grew on Japan from outside, there was increasing clamour inside the country for cash to be diverted for military purposes.Japanese diplomats at the time voiced concern in cables back to Tokyo that powers such as Britain and the United States could boycott the Games over Japan’s war-like activity.Yet, in words familiar to those following the story of the 2020 Games, Tokyo insisted the show would go on. Barker cites a cable from Tokyo City Hall to the IOC which said: “The citizens of Tokyo are doing their utmost to make the 1940 Games a success.”But the Japanese Olympic Committee eventually bowed to the inevitable and forfeited in July 1938, saying what they euphemistically called “the trouble with China” had made staging the Games impossible.“The organising committee and the people of Japan were deeply disappointed in having to give up the Games, but, in the circumstances, no other course was open,” the “Olympic News” bulletin published in Tokyo wrote at the time.“With the worsening international relations and increasing military activities in the Asian continent, the cancellation might not have been that surprising,” Ikeda told AFP.The Winter Games, due to be held in the northern Japanese city of Sapporo, were also scrapped and the war put paid to the proposed rescheduling in the Finnish capital.The next time the Olympic torch was lit was for London in 1948, four years after the city had originally been due to host. But Japan, as a defeated power, was excluded and Helsinki staged the next summer Games in 1952.Tokyo finally became the first Asian city to host the Olympic Games in 1964."
Web Desk,PSL postponed after foreign player catches coronavirus,2020-03-17,"LAHORE: The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) on Tuesday announced that the on-going season of the Pakistan Super League (PSL) has been postponed indefinitely after a foreign player who had left last week displayed symptoms of the coronavirus.Speaking at a press conference with other officials in Lahore, PCB Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Wasim Khan said that the player’s name would not be revealed to maintain privacy, adding that the players from all the teams, the broadcasters and everyone else associated with the tournament would be tested for the virus.At least 14 foreign players had decided to return to their own countries after the PCB last week gave them the option to leave amid coronavirus fears.Responding to a question he said that the Karachi Kings team had reservations about playing in the tournament and the decision was then made after consulting all the franchises.The PCB chief added that the semi-final and final matches would be rescheduled before the next season of the PSL.“We have been following the government’s advice [in the matter]. First, we took the decision to play matches in empty stadiums, then we gave players the option to leave, then we reduced the number of matches, we took 2-3 measures […] but after this suspected case, we made this decision.”IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT#HBLPSLV postponed, to be rescheduled. More details to follow in due course. — PakistanSuperLeague (@thePSLt20) March 17, 2020Responding to a question about future cricket plans, Khan said that “nobody is playing cricket internationally […] it is a pandemic situation. Safety comes first, cricket comes second.”A statement from the PCB said that the cricketing body would use its “reach and influence to play its part in all government’s drives and initiatives to create awareness and deal with this pandemic”."
Web Desk,HBL PSL 5: Quetta Gladiators defeat Karachi Kings by 5 wickets,2020-03-16,"Quetta Gladiators 154 for 5 (Watson 66, Manzoor 63, Maqsood 2-19) beat Karachi Kings 150 for 5 (Delport 62, Naseem 2-17) by five wicketsKARACHI: Quetta Gladiators, who entered the tournament as defending champions, walked out of the Pakistan Super League (PSL) 2020 on Sunday with a five-wicket win over Karachi Kings.The Gladiators cruised towards victory as they scored 154 runs in just 16.2 overs, at the loss of five wickets. The Karachi Kings had posted 150 runs on the scoreboard during their innings earlier when they had won the toss and opted to bat first.Shane Watson was awarded the Player of the Match for his 66-run knock off 34 balls. His 118-run partnership with Khurram Manzoor (63) kept the team from getting derailed after Ahmed Shehzad’s early wicket. Shehzad had walked off the stadium for naught.Chadwick Walton (62) was the highest scorer for the Kings, who could not do much with the bat.Karachi Kings will face Lahore Qalandars at the Gaddafi Stadium, Lahore on March 17 at 7 pm. On the same day at 2 pm, Multan Sultans will play against Peshawar Zalmi.Despite their victory, Gladiators failed to reach the semi-finals due to low points. They did manage to lift themselves from the bottom of the table and finished second-last with nine points. Islamabad United finished last with seven points."
Web Desk,Chris Lynn’s 55-ball 113 takes Lahore Qalandars to maiden semi-final,2020-03-15,"Lahore Qalandars 191 for 1 (Lynn 113*, Zaman 57) beat Multan Sultans 186 for 6 (Khushdil 70*, Masood 42, Afridi 2-23) by nine wicketsLAHORE: The dynamic opening duo of Fakhar Zaman and Chris Lynn terrorised a second-string Multan Sultans bowling unit, pummeling 72 runs in the powerplay during a 100-run partnership to mow down a target of 187 as Lahore Qalandars clinched their first-ever playoff berth in the fifth season of the Pakistan Super League with a nine-wicket win. A blazing half-century by Zaman was followed by Lynn’s match-clinching ton, the first-ever by a Qalandars batsman in their five-year history in the tournament.Qalandars were off to a shaky start again early in the tournament this season after losing their first three matches but a stunning resurgence propelled in their fourth match by the ferocious hitting of Ben Dunk dug them out of the cellar. The pyrotechnics of Zaman and Lynn in their season finale against Sultans ensured Dunk’s prior efforts were not in vain. Bouncing back from a 10-wicket drubbing at the hands of Karachi Kings on Thursday, Zaman and Lynn seized on the fact that Sultans could afford to rest several of their frontline bowlers after having clinched first place outright 48 hours earlier.Zaman led the initial onslaught, bringing up a 25-ball half-century during a brutal seventh over assault on Moeen Ali’s offspin. After Zaman was stumped following a charge gone awry to Usman Qadir’s legspin in the 9th, Lynn took centrestage with more belligerent hitting.The Australian brought up a 22-ball half-century in the 10th over swatting Ravi Bopara over cow corner for six. The maximum barrage continued against Khushdil Shah in the 14th, who was carted for back-to-back straight sixes to take Lynn into the 80s. Another heave over cow corner off Bilawal Bhatti took him to 98 before a pair of singles off Junaid Khan brought up the first century by a Qalandars batsman in their five-year history. Lynn then ended the match by heaving Ali Shafiq twice over the leg side rope in the 19th to seal his side’s maiden playoff appearance with seven balls to spare.Momentum was with Sultans after a sloppy bowling display in the latter half of the first innings allowed Khushdil to feast his way to an unbeaten 70 off 29 balls. But Zaman and Lynn stole it right back with their thunderous powerplay. A consistent short ball plan to Zaman failed repeatedly as he hooked and pulled for boundaries at will.However, the most savage treatment by Zaman was meted out immediately after the first six when he attacked Ali in the seventh over. He charged Ali’s second ball, driving him hard over mid-off for six. An attempted to bowl fuller, flatter and wider next ball was negated when Zaman swept him through the leg side for four. Two balls later, Zaman was galloping down the wicket again to lift Ali over long-on for another six. At 89 for 0 with the required run rate down to 7.53, Sultans were left completely deflated.Lynn has had a monster reputation on the T20 franchise circuit over the last several years, particularly in the Caribbean Premier League and Big Bash. But amazingly, this performance was his first century in T20 franchise cricket outside of Australia. There was a great maturity to the knock as well. With Zaman applying the early pressure, Lynn was content to rotate the strike and only attack when there was a genuine loose ball. Though he had several close shaves early on with a couple of inside edges missing the stumps on the way to the fine leg boundary, Lynn got his eye locked in midway through the chase and from there on showed no mercy.The arsenal of bowling guns were rested today by Sultans. The first time these two sides played in their opening match of the season, Imran Tahir was named Man of the Match for his two key wickets while Sohail Tanvir, Mohammad Irfan and Shahid Afridi were no less impactful in a match that was clinched with 29 balls to spare chasing a target of 139. Their collective absence was noticeable in the toothless display produced by much of the Sultans bowling unit that took the field on Sunday afternoon.Sultans could afford to rest all of those aforementioned names because they had already clinched first place and the No. 1 seed in the PSL playoffs regardless of today’s result, though the loss kept them on 14 points. Barring a miracle, they will play Peshawar Zalmi in one semi-final unless Quetta Gladiators beat Karachi Kings and erase a monumental net-run-rate deficit in the process to steal fourth place from Zalmi. Qalandars end the league phase in third place on ten points and will meet Karachi Kings in the other semi-final on Tuesday."
Web Desk,"HBL PSL 2020: Sharjeel Khan, bowlers propel Karachi Kings into last four",2020-03-14,"KARACHI: The good times had to end some day, and for Islamabad United, that day was today. The PSL’s most successful team bowed out of the competition at the first hurdle for the first time since its inception, with a fantastic comeback against Karachi Kings not quite enough in the end to keep them in contention. An ordinary effort with the bat meant they had a mountain to climb if they were to restrict Karachi’s slew of explosive batsman under the 137 they had set them for victory, and a disastrous first two overs that saw Sharjeel Khan bludgeon 36 didn’t help matters. They would pull Karachi back magnificently in the middle overs, and towards the end looked like they had done enough for a great escape act, but a pair of lusty blows from the unlikely bat of Umaid Asif meant sneaked Karachi home with four balls to spare, and through to the last four, at the same time sending Islamabad out.Just as in the previous game, Karachi had their bowlers to thank for making things easier in the second innings. In a superbly disciplined bowling performance, they would stifle Islamabad right from the outset, no bowler allowing himself to be a weak link the batsman could pick off. Mohammad Amir began superbly, the changes of pace and the sideways movement keeping Islamabad on their toes, while five different bowlers were amongst the wickets. No bowler, Usama Mir aside, went for over 7.7 an over. Then Chris Jordan’s customarily brilliant death bowling prevented Islamabad from the big finish they desperately needed to keep themselves in contention.Islamabad, in truth, were severely hampered by the absence of four key overseas players, and it showed in the top order. The absence of Luke Ronchi and Colin Munro was crippling, with Phil Salt and Rizwan Hussain not able to put the bowlers under similar pressure, and Colin Ingram, who they needed a big contribution from, was run out after a mix-up. Even Shadab Khan, who has been a revelation with the bat, was subdued, and only managed a scratchy 14-ball 12 before top edging Arshad Iqbal.A low total meant Islamabad needed early wickets, but what they got instead was a brutal onslaught from Sharjeel Khan that looked like it had put the game to bed. He flew to 32 off 9 balls, with four sixes and a couple of boundaries as Karachi knocked off nearly a third of the target in the first two overs. His wicket slowed things down considerably, and Karachi were nearly punished for being overly cautious when the asking rate began to creep up and the pressure mount. When Imad Wasim, Cameron Delport and Iftikhar Ahmed fell, they still needed over 30 to win, and the required rate had shot up beyond 10.A six and a four from Walton helped, but when he chopped one to extra cover, the game looked gone. Asif would step up as Shadab’s patchy form with the ball continued, the Islamabad captain conceding 13 runs in the penultimate over meaning Karachi needed just five from the final one. The win was sealed with a glorious off drive from Asif, and Islamabad’s charmed relationship with the PSL finally suffered its first serious blow.It was quite a day Muhammad Musa had, and didn’t seem an especially memorable one for the teenager when Sharjeel carted him away for two fours and two sixes in his first over. It would get worse when he finally came back on for his second spell, the first ball driven back hard by Babar Azam, the ball clattering into his shin. He spent some time writhing in agony, but it was just the start of a sensational comeback spell. That over would end up being a wicket maiden, with the wicket being that of Azam. With Karachi more circumspect during the middle overs in the belief they could coast through, Musa tightened the screws, tighter than a taxman’s purse as he allowed just four in his remaining two overs. After getting smashed for 20 in his first over, Musa would concede just four in his remaining three, helping his side get to the brink of victory.There was more than one, but let’s allow recency bias to look at the one that finally decided the game’s fate. With the asking rate having crept up and Asif’s reputation with the bat not exactly world-renowned, Shadab decided to pepper him with a few flat, quick balls instead of conventional legspinners. It worked the first couple of times, but the Islamabad captain tried it once too often. With 13 needed off 8, Asif hung back in anticipation of another dart, and was in prime position to time the full toss over long-on for a huge six. The game had turned on a single delivery, and Islamabad would pay a dear price for it.Karachi Kings have qualified for the last four, and go up to second in the table for now. Islamabad United are fifth, and now cannot finish in the top four, meaning they become the first side to be eliminated."
Web Desk,HBL PSL 5: Multan Sultans defeat Peshawar Zalmi by 3 runs,2020-03-14,"KARACHI: The Multan Sultans on Friday defeated the Peshawar Zalmi by 3 runs to win their Pakistan Super League (PSL) 2020 clash on Friday at the National Stadium in Karachi.Hammad Azam and Adil Amin were unable to see Peshawar Zalmi to victory even after two no-balls were bowled in the last over and it looked as if Zalmi would snatch victory from the jaws of defeat.Zalmi were rattled with an early setback when right-handed opener Kamran Akmal, who has been dangerous throughout the tournament, fell cheaply for 2 from 7 balls. He was clean bowled by Mohammad Irfan.Wahab Riaz tried his hand at batting up the order but the move did not prove beneficial. He was sent to the pavilion after he scored only 3 runs off 7 balls, caught by Moeen Ali off a Sohail Tanvir delivery.Umar Amin and Imam-ul-Haq put up a solid partnership. The former scored 29 from 23 balls, hitting four 4s while the latter scored 56 from 41 balls, hitting two 6s and four 4s before he was dismissed. His wicket was also picked up by Sohail Tanvir.Shoaib Malik pitched in with a much-needed 30 runs off 25 balls, hitting two 6s and a four before Shahid Afridi caught him out off an Ali Shafaq delivery.Haider Ali, who has earned the critics’ nod after a string of impressive performances throughout PSL 2020, fell cheaply to Ali Shafaq. He was caught by Moeen Ali, scoring only 1 run off 4 balls.Earlier, the Multan Sultans handed “The Yellow Storm” 155 runs to win after finishing at 154/6 from their 20 overs. Zeeshan Ashraf was the pick of the batsmen for the Sultans as he scored 52 off 39 balls, hitting seven 4s and a 6 before he was dismissed by Rahat Ali.Skipper Shan Masood scored 28 off 23 balls, hitting three boundaries before he was dismissed by Hassan Ali, caught by Umar Yamin.Khushdil Shah scored a quickfire 30 off 20 balls, hitting two huge sixes to give some stability to the side after Moeen Ali and Ravi Bopara earlier for 0 and 5 respectively.Former Pakistan cricket captain Shahid Afridi was sent to the pavilion after he made 19 runs from 13 balls, hitting a six and a four each. He was caught by Umar Yamin off a Wahab Riaz delivery.Rahat Ali’s performance with the ball stood out as he picked up three important wickets to finish up with figures of 3/24 from his four overs. Mohammad Amir Khan, Hassan Ali and Wahab Riaz each picked up a wicket to restrict the Sultans to 154/6."
Web Desk,Pandemic shuts down Everest as Nepal suspends permits,2020-03-13,"KATHMANDU: Nepal on Friday barred climbers from all mountains — including Everest — over the coronavirus pandemic, in a major blow to its tourism industry.The move could cost the Himalayan nation tens of millions of dollars in revenues drawn by the world’s biggest mountain, and expedition organisers said it would cause a financial disaster.“The government has decided to suspend all spring expeditions and scrap permits for the time being. The decision can be reviewed after analysing the global scenario over the coming month,” tourism minister Yogesh Bhattarai told AFP, adding no more visas would be given on arrival for foreigners.Nepal’s move came a day after China barred access from its side.The country, still recovering from a major 2015 earthquake, was hoping to attract two million tourists for the first time in 2020.“This is disappointing news for both our expedition leaders and our clients who have trained for months for this year’s climb,” said Lukas Furtenbach, head of US-based Furtenbach Adventures.Every spring tents cities of hundreds of foreign climbers and support staff grows at the foot of Everest and other peaks.All have to live in close quarters. As the air thins, breathing is already difficult at higher altitude — adding to medical risks if there is an outbreak of any kind among climbers.Mingma Sherpa of Seven Summit Treks, one of the biggest Everest expedition organisers, said the decision was right because there could “10 times” the harm if there was an outbreak on a mountain.“I urge climbers to not panic because they can’t climb this season, our mountains will always be with us,” Sherpa said.Nepal has issued only five permits for the season but none for Everest so far.Climber Vanessa Estol from Uruguay was hoping to be the first woman to summit Everest from her country.“Climbing Everest was a dream. I feel really bad,” said Estol.“I was training and planning for a year. But safety is always first.”Everest attracts hundreds of mountaineers from all over the world each spring, when a window of good weather opens up between late April and the end of May, prompting a rush for the summit.Last year’s spring window saw a record 885 people summit Everest, 644 of them from Nepal and 241 from the northern flank in Tibet.This will be the third time in the last decade that Everest’s summit will be empty.Santa Bir Lama, president of Nepal’s mountaineering association, said the cancellation will have “devastating” repercussions on the country’s tourism.“Companies will suffer and workers even more. But it is a responsible thing to do considering the risks,” Lama said.Many guides and support staff depend on the short climbing season for the bulk of their annual earnings.“We work three months and earn to support our families, pay rent. If that is not there then how do we live?,” said Everest guide Lhakpa Sherpa.Kami Rita Sherpa, who hoped to break his own record of 24 summits of Everest this season, said the government should come up with a compensation plan.“Some people are in trouble here, the government should decide on a salary for those in the trekking sector,” he said."
Web Desk,Four days shaved off PSL 2020 schedule following rejig,2020-03-13,"LAHORE: The PSL has scrapped its four-match play-off, turning the knockout stage into a two-day affair with semi-finals and a final, as the league copes with the impact of the COVID-19 (novel coronavirus) outbreak. As many as ten overseas players and an overseas coach are also leaving because of the developments and fears over travel restrictions.The rejig shaves four days off the schedule even though it reduces the total match count by just one.Earlier, the play-offs were to run from March 17 to March 22, the first match in Karachi and the remaining three in Lahore. Now, the semi-final double-header will be on March 17 and the final on March 18, all at Lahore’s Gaddafi Stadium.“The decision means the HBL Pakistan Super League 2020 will be reduced by four days and there will now be 33 matches as opposed to 34,” a PCB statement said. “According to the revised schedule, the 17 March semi-finals will be double-headers and will be held at the Gaddafi Stadium with the table-toppers going head to head with the fourth-placed side at 2pm. This match will be followed by the second semi-final, which will begin at 7pm, between the second and third-placed sides.“The final will be played on 18 March and will start at 7pm. All these changes have been made with the consultation of the team owners.”A large contingent of English players were among the most significant to pull out from from the PSL because of the pandemic. Peshawar Zalmi’s Tom Banton, Liam Livingstone, Lewis Gregory and Carlos Brathwaite, as well as Multan Sultans’ James Vince and Karachi Kings’ Alex Hales, were among the first to confirm their departures, and the list has since expanded to include Peshawar’s Liam Dawson and coach James Foster, Multan’s Rilee Rossouw, and Jason Roy and Tymal Mills of Quetta Gladiators.ESPNcricinfo understands that with the situation still unfolding, more overseas players will leave the tournament prematurely. The PCB has also confirmed that the remaining matches would be played behind closed doors, and all local and overseas players and support staff members have been given the option to pull out.“Today, the PCB and the team owners, as part of their duty of care, have decided to give all the players the option to decide if they wish to return home,” the PCB said in a statement. “Ensuring that the players feel comfortable remains paramount to the PCB. As of now, it is important to emphasise and clarify that the main concern of many of the 10 players and a coach, who have chosen to return home, revolves around avoiding a potential situation where they might become stranded either due to flight cancellations or border closures in their own countries.”The PCB also said that it had carried out medical tests, and that no player has tested positive for the virus.With this many players pulling out, the PCB has given the go-ahead to the franchises to seek replacements. ESPNcricinfo understands that the PCB is also in contact with the competent authority in the government and will continue to monitor the situation closely and “won’t hesitate to make what we believe are the right decisions for everyone involved”.As things stand, Lahore Qalandars and Islamabad United are the only teams unchanged with their players staying on for the rest of the tournament. Islamabad have, however, called off their training session in Karachi and it’s likely that they will lose Dawid Malan as early as tonight.There have been 16 reported cases of coronavirus in Pakistan so far, and most of those are in Karachi, with no one in Lahore testing positive yet. Four of the remaining PSL games are slated to be played in Karachi, while four, including the final, will be held in Lahore.High-level meetings to find ways to deal with the emergency are on, and prime minister Imran Khan will meet the national security committee today and is expected to make some important announcements by the end of the day.In a tweet, Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan, the special assistant to the prime minister on information and broadcasting, said that Khan chairing a meeting with provincial chief ministers, which will be attended by civil and military leaders. “Our primary responsibility is the protection and well-being of Pakistanis,” she said, adding that measures to make the country safe from the effects of the virus would be implemented too. “The purpose of the meeting was to unite the entire country on the important issue of coronavirus and that the huddle is part of national efforts to ensure harmony and contain coronavirus.”"
Web Desk,"IPL postponed till April 15, India v SA ODI rescheduled",2020-03-13,"MUMBAI: The start of the Indian Premier League, the world’s most lucrative cricket competition, has been postponed from March 29 until April 15 over the coronavirus, the Indian cricket board said Friday.Sports events worldwide have been upended by the deadly virus, including this weekend’s Formula One Australian Grand Prix as well as football and NBA basketball.“The Board of Control for Cricket in India has decided to suspend IPL 2020 till 15th April 2020, as a precautionary measure against the ongoing Novel Corona Virus (COVID-19) situation,” the BCCI said in a statement.The two-month Twenty20 competition is estimated to generate more than $11 billion for the Indian economy and involves cricket’s top international stars like England’s Ben Stokes, Australia’s David Warner and Indian captain Virat Kohli.Chinese mobile-maker Vivo paid $330 million to be the top sponsor for 2018-2022 for the league.It involves eight franchises playing 60 matches to packed, raucous stadiums of tens of thousands of spectators — plus cheerleaders — all around India.India has so far reported relatively few virus cases, but a jump to more than 70 in recent days and the first confirmed death have prompted authorities to discourage public events.Moreover, The India versus South Africa ODI series has also been rescheduled.Less than 24 hours after it said the remainder of the home ODI series between India and South Africa would be played behind closed doors due to the coronavirus pandemic, the BCCI on Friday decided to call off the matches in Lucknow (March 15) and Kolkata (March 18) for now. A BCCI statement said both they and CSA had decided to “reschedule” the series and that South Africa would visit India at a later date to play three ODIs, with a revised schedule.The statement seemed to suggest that the two teams would play a fresh set of three ODIs even though technically the first ODI had been completed in this series, though it was a washout without a ball being bowled in Dharamsala."
Web Desk,England tour of Sri Lanka postponed,2020-03-13,"LONDON: England’s Test tour of Sri Lanka has been called off at the request of the ECB, due to the growing threat of the the COVID-19 pandemic, but on the understanding that it will be rescheduled at a later date.The news came while England were playing their final four-day warm-up match, ahead of the two-Test series which had been scheduled to get underway in Galle on March 19. Play continued for a few minutes after the announcement, before the players left the field at 3.40pm local time.The match was duly abandoned with the Sri Lanka Board President’s XI on 150 for 3 in their first innings.“After overnight discussions between our teams in Sri Lanka and the SLC, the decision has been made to postpone the series and bring players and support staff home. Our aim will be to reschedule the series,” said an ECB spokesman.The ECB had been in regular contact with the Sri Lankan and British High Commissions, in addition to Sri Lanka Cricket to address a “highly evolving” situation. SLC are understood to have offered to play the series behind closed doors, but the ECB pushed for a full postponement, making the case that their players would not have been in the right frame of mind for a Test series. The decision was, said the ECB, “beyond cricket”.England’s next scheduled Test series is against West Indies in June, but that too is in serious doubt, with Sir Patrick Vallance, the UK’s chief scientific adviser, saying on Wednesday that the anticipated peak of the virus in the UK is “10-14 weeks away, maybe slightly longer”."
Web Desk,Australia crush New Zealand in first ODI,2020-03-13,"Australia 7 for 258 (Warner 67, Finch 60, Labuschagne 56, Sodhi 3-51) beat New Zealand 187 (Guptill 40, Latham 38, Cummins 3-25, Marsh 3-29) by 71 runsSYDNEY: Australia crushed New Zealand by 71 runs in the first one day international at an empty Sydney Cricket Ground on Friday.After New Zealand earlier kept the home side to 258 for seven, the Australian bowling attack dominated the Kiwi batsmen to dismiss the visitors for 187 in the 41st over.Cricket Australia barred spectators from the match in response to the coronavirus pandemic, leading to the strange sight of players acknowledging milestones to empty grandstands.It was also revealed that Australian fast bowler Kane Richardson was in quarantine early in the day and had been tested for the virus after feeling unwell.However, he was subsequently cleared of the virus and returned to the ground to rejoin his teammates.Australian skipper Aaron Finch won the toss and chose to bat, with the home side at one stage looking at a score in excess of 300 following a superb opening partnership from Finch and David Warner.But once Warner (67) and Finch (60) were dismissed, the Australian innings lost momentum and New Zealand clawed their way back into the game, despite a late flourish from Marnus Labuschagne, who made 56 from just 52 deliveries.New Zealand must have given themselves a good chance of taking a 1-0 lead in the three-match series, but some superb Australian bowling in the first 10 overs meant the visitors were always behind in the run chase.None of the New Zealand batsmen was able to dominate — Martin Guptill top scored with 40 — and wickets fell at regular intervals as Australia took control.The victory will come as a welcome boost to the Australians, who had lost their last five ODIs in series losses to South Africa and India.Test spearhead Pat Cummins was the pick of the bowlers with 3-25, while allrounder Mitchell Marsh claimed 3-29.Adam Zampa and Josh Hazlewood both picked up two wickets in an impressive team display.Earlier, New Zealand spinners Mitchell Santner and Ish Sodhi reined Australia in after Finch and Warner’s bright start.Warner brought up a chanceless half-century but soon began to struggle when New Zealand’s fastest bowler, Lockie Ferguson, came round the wicket and he eventually fell when he was beaten by pace and sliced a Ferguson thunderbolt to mid-on.Santner struck next when Finch got a faint edge to keeper Tom Latham to leave Australia 145 for two.He then rocked the home side when he bowled Steve Smith (14) with the addition of only one run.Leg-spinner Sodhi was expensive early but he adjusted his length and claimed the next three wickets to give New Zealand hope of chasing down the Australian total under the SCG lights.The second match will take place on Sunday, also at the SCG."
Web Desk,HBL PSL 5: Karachi Kings defeat Lahore Qalandars by 10 wickets,2020-03-13,"Karachi Kings 151 for 0 (Sharjeel 74*, Azam 69*) beat Lahore Qalandars 150 for 5 (Akhtar 68, Iqbal 2-15, Asif 2-34) by ten wicketsKarachi Kings snuffed out Lahore Qalandars’ resurgence with a clinical performance to put themselves back in consideration for the playoffs of PSL 2020. Following a washed-out game against the Multan Sultans and a Ben Dunk-inspired defeat at Lahore’s hands last week, Karachi bounced back thanks to a disciplined bowling performance that strangled Lahore’s ability before cruising to the total without losing a single wicket – just the second ten-wicket win in PSL history.Openers Babar Azam and Sharjeel Khan barely appeared to get out of the third gear, but that didn’t stop them from overwhelming the Lahore bowlers completely. They scored 69 and 74 respectively and took the side to victory inside 17 overs.Put in to bat, Lahore did get off to a solid start thanks to their ever-improving captain Sohail Akhtar, whose 49-ball 68 held together an innings that appeared to be gearing up for a big finish.But the middle order let him down, while Karachi’s accuracy and intelligence following the halfway mark ensured Lahore never really attained the fluency they required to put up a challenging total. Umaid Asif took the key wickets of Fakhar Zaman and Dunk kneecapping Lahore’s big-hitting prowess, while Chirs Jordan’s accuracy at the death ensured Lahore managed only 150.Enter Azam And Sharjeel. It seemed Sharjeel might have been going too slow to start off, but seeing off the dangerous Shaheen Afridi proved a tactical masterstroke. The only way for Lahore to get into the match was to take wickets, depriving them that saw the pressure lift quickly, and the run-scoring increased exponentially. Azam was supremely untroubled, and before long, Sharjeel unleashed the big hits. It might have been billed as the contest of the season, but ended up being a cakewalk.Star of the day Arshad Iqbal had struggled during the early stages of the PSL, but thrust into the big game today, he repaid his franchise’s faith with his best performance of the season. When he was called upon for the ninth over, Lahore were going steadily at 65 for 1, with Chris Lynn having just arrived at the crease. Iqbal was greeted by a slice behind backward point for four by Akhtar but came back strongly in the over conceding just three more while also getting rid of Lynn, who was deceived in the air and holed out to deep midwicket. Iqbal was unlucky not to have sent Akhtar back off the first ball of his next over, with Alex Hales dropping a skier. He got his man in his next over, though, with Akhtar misjudging the bounce of a delivery that struck his pads, and the lbw call withstanding despite Lahore’s review. Iqbal didn’t complete his quota, but the two wickets he picked up in three overs came at the cost of just 15 runs.Miss of the day With Dunk having proved the tormentor-in-chief for Karachi just four days ago, Lahore had high hopes from the Australian who appeared to be in the form of his life. Instead, Dunk had perhaps his worst game of the season. When he came out to bat, he struggled for fluency. Both Usama Mir, who bowled well enough for his first game of the PSL, and Jordan kept him quiet before he lost his patience. The left-hander went for a half-hearted pull shot against Asif, only for Mir at short fine leg to complete a simple catch. It had taken fourteen balls for him to score 9 runs, and his day would get worse. He put down a simple chance Sharjeel offered during the powerplay when the Karachi opener had just scored 18. He would go on to smash 74*.WHERE THE TEAMS STAND:Karachi leapfrog Lahore to get to nine points and third place on the table, while Lahore stay on eight with four wins and five losses. Both teams should qualify with one more win, though Karachi have two games to get there, while Lahore’s final game is likely a must-win."
Web Desk,HBL PSL 5: Lahore Qalandars defeat Peshawar Zalmi by 5 wickets,2020-03-10,"LAHORE: The Lahore Qalandars continued to win their second consecutive match against the Peshawar Zalmi on Tuesday at the Gaddafi Stadium, downing the latter by five wickets.It was not until Brathwaite took two quick wickets that the Zalmi started believing in a win yet again. The West Indian dismissed Bunk for 7 runs off 5 balls and Mohammad Hafeez who scored a run-a-ball 4 runs to turn the tables on the Qalandars.Earlier, the Qalandars brought their A-game against Peshawar Zalmi as fiery half-centuries from Fakhar Zaman and Chris Lynn put the underdogs in the driving seat of the match at the Gaddafi Stadium.The Qalandars were off to a flying start with Zaman and Sohail Akhtar hitting boundaries all over the ground. However, a mishap for the Qalandars occurred when a throw from Haider Ali was instrumental in running out Akhtar. He scored 21 off 19 balls, hitting three 4s.In walked Chris Lynn and he unleashed on the Zalmi bowlers right from the word go. His innings featured towering sixes and fiery 4s. Lynn scored 59 runs from 32 balls before a superb diving catch from Yasir Shah off a Brathwaite delivery saw him return to the pavilion.Yasir Shah took another catch, a few deliveries later, to dismiss Zaman. He scored 63 from 46 balls, hitting seven boundaries in total (four 4s and three 6s.A match that had seemed under control for so long finally seemed to wrestle itself free from Lahore’s grips. It was needlessly allowed to go down to the wire but Samit Patel and David Wiese got what needed to be done to get their side their third consecutive win.Earlier, Peshawar Zalmi had set a 188-run target against the Lahore Qalandars after they were invited to bat first.Haider Ali and Shoaib Malik both scored half-centuries, boosting the side’s total significantly, despite their loss of seven wickets.After losing the toss, Zalmi were sent to bat by the Qalandars.Zalmi suffered an early setback when Shaheen Shah Afridi dismissed Banton off his first bowl, caught by Mohammad Hafeez.Shortly after, the in-form Samit Patel took Livingstone’s wicket. He scored a disappointing 4 runs off 5 balls before heading to the pavilion.The dangerous Kamran Akmal hit a four and a six each before he got out, caught by Haris Rauf from a Patel delivery.Reeling from an early loss of three wickets inside of four overs, the side managed to recover courtesy the performances by Ali and Malik.Malik, who scored 62 runs off 43 balls, was dismissed off Wiese’s delivery when he miscued his shot and sent it down to Fakhar Zaman at long-on.After Malik’s dismissal, those of Lewis Gregory (8 off 4 balls) and Ali (69 pff 43) followed within an over of one another by Afridi and Dilbar Hussain, respectively.Wahab Riaz was sent packing next, after having scored just one run. He was taken out by Afridi, who took three wickets over the course of the innings.Peshawar Zalmi are at the number 2 spot in the table with 9 points. The ‘Yellow Storm’ have so far won four of their eight matches.The Lahore Qalandars went into the match with their heads held high after drubbing Karachi Kings at the same venue two days ago by eight wickets.The Qalandars will be looking to their star left-handed batsman Dunk to unleash hell on the Zalmi bowlers.The Qalandars chased down the 188-run target set by the Kings in their previous match comfortably courtesy the onslaught of sixes by Ben Dunk, who sent the ball flying a massive 12 times, including the final shot of the match.Dunk fell short of a century, however managing to amass 99 runs off just 40 deliveries.Sohail Akhtar was the other big hitter who scored 68 off 46 balls."
Web Desk,COVID 19: HBL PSL 2020 matches to be held as per schedule in Karachi,2020-03-10,"Sindh Information Minister Nasir Hussain Shah on Tuesday shut down rumours claiming that the HBL Pakistan Super League (PSL) 2020 matches due to be held in the city may not take place owing to concerns regarding the spread of the coronavirus in Pakistan.“All matches due to be held at the National Stadium would take place as per the schedule,” said Shah during a press conference at the stadium.His remarks came in the backdrop of reports that the provincial health department will forward recommendations to Chief Minister (CM) Murad Ali Shah for a ban to be placed on public gatherings.“The virus is not as deadly as being portrayed […] it is not as if someone who contracts cannot recover fully,” the information minister said.Asked if spectators should be careful while coming to the matches, he said they can come without any fear. “We will provide sanitisers and there are arrangements for screening as well,” he said."
Web Desk,Vince stars with 61 off 24 as Sultans make HBL PSL 2020 play-offs,2020-03-08,"Nine overs a side game Multan Sultans 94 for 1 (Vince 61*) beat Islamabad United 91 for 7 (Munro 25, Tahir 2-13, Junaid 2-17) by nine wicketsRAWALPINDI: The rain deprived Islamabad United of any points against Peshawar Zalmi on Saturday, and they will now hope it had continued long enough to ensure today’s match against Multan Sultans was rendered impossible. For once it got going, Multan delivered a lesson in ruthless efficiency, teaching Islamabad how to fly out of the blocks and develop an unassailable lead. A target of 92 might have been tricky in nine overs, but not when James Vince is in full flow it’s not. An onslaught that was frightening in its brutality and exquisite in its execution steamrolled Islamabad, taking just 24 balls for an unbeaten 61. It killed off the contest, with Multan cruising to the chase in fewer than 6.3 overs.Islamabad were sitting fairly pretty in the opening stages of the match, having brought up their own fifty in just 3.3 overs. Their prospects looked bright when Colin Munro whipped Shahid Afridi for three sixes off his first three balls. But the wheels would come off after that for Shadab Khan’s side with wickets starting to fall with alarming frequency. Most batsmen found more height than distance on their shots, a number holing out in the deep, and in no time, a scorecard that read 57 for 1 had slumped to 91 for 7. Since the Munro offensive, only 41 runs came off the last 33 balls, and in a nine-over game, that was too much of a slowdown.Vince vs Akif JavedVersus implies this might have been a contest; it was, instead a blowout. For Vince, who delights and frustrates in equal measure, the former because of the elegance of his strokeplay and the latter for its ephemeral nature, found a shortend game suited his strengths wonderfully. He had displayed his timing was on point with a glorious drive through backward point off Dale Steyn, and Akif had plenty of reasons to be wary.The first ball was heaved into the onside for four and the next a slightly fortuitous edge to third man, and things would only get better. When Akif pitched one up full, Vince leant into one of those glorious drives most responsible for putting food on his table, before a straight drive made it four in a row. There was further ignominy for the hapless Javed when he was bludgeoned through extra cover for five in a row, and the only saving grace was Vince wouldn’t be able to make it six.That still meant eight fours had been scored off the first 11 balls of the innings. It was more a procession than a run-chase from that point onwards.Imran TahirNo matter how you stack the deck against bowlers and how hostile you make the conditions, Imran Tahir always seems to find a way to excel. Coming in for the fifth over – just after Afridi had been spanked for 20 in his – Tahir wasn’t fazed, taking just three balls to remove the dangerous Munro, his over costing Multan just seven. He was just as effective the second time around, this time snaring the in-form Shadab. He had a chance to make that spell an even more glittering one, but his weakest suit – his fielding – let him down as he failed to cling on to a skier by Asif Ali. Even so, 2 for 17 in his two-over spell was the perfect antidote to Munro’s destructiveness, and ensured that Multan wrestled back the momentum. Vince ensured once they had it in their grasp, they would never let of it.Where the teams standFor the first time in PSL history, a new team has entered the play-offs, with Multan Sultans confirming safe passage through to the last four. Islamabad have just seven points with one game to go, and may need other results to go in their favour if they are to maintain their perfect record of play-off progression."
Web Desk,Samit Patel and Lahore Qalandars find joy on square turner,2020-03-07,"Lahore Qalandars 100 for 2 (Hafeez 39) beat Quetta Gladiators 98 for 9 (Patel 4-5) by eight wicketsLAHORE: Has the PSL really moved back to Pakistan, and is this a T20 league? Today, on a pitch redolent of the most treacherous surfaces in the UAE, Samit Patel, aided by a contingent of Lahore Qalandars spinners who happened to come in handy, blew Quetta Gladiators top order away, reducing them to 21 for 6.The pitch was ragging square, and there was little Quetta could do but cautiously bat out the 20 overs from that point on. They limped to 98, which appeared impressive in the circumstances, but when the second innings rolled around, Quetta’s slower bowlers simply didn’t possess the same bite. A 62-run partnership between Mohammad Hafeez and Ben Dunk put any early fears to rest, and Lahore cantered to a crushing win with 8 wickets and nine overs to spare.Well, where did this surface come from? The last two days have seen Lahore peppered by intermittent rain; it was responsible for the abandoned game between Multan and Karachi last night. And when the fast-improving Shaheen Afridi’s exceptional first over saw Shane Watson depart for a golden duck, it looked as if the strip would favour bowlers who could move the ball at pace far more than the spinners.But that’s where Patel came in. The first ball to Jason Roy looped and beat the outside edge; it was a harbinger for what was to follow. Roy would be removed by an identical delivery that beat him so comprehensively he actually had to check with the keeper to confirm it had dislodged his off bail. It was one of four wickets Patel took, with his figures reading a 4-1-5-4.From thereon, Quetta hunkered down and focused on batting out the overs, Sohail Khan biding his time and cashing in towards the end. When he hit Dilbar Hussain for 18 in the 18th over, it seemed like a match-turning moment. However, there was no one in the Quetta ranks who played the superhuman role Patel had for Lahore, with the early bedlam responsible for consigning them to a fourth successive defeat.Samit Patel stunsThere is no doubt the surface was a dream to play on, but it is notable Patel’s performance so far exceeded those delivered by any of his peers. There wasn’t a delivery that didn’t hit the spot, Patel confident enough to give it plenty of flight, continuously bringing the outside edge of the right-handers in play.That is how Sarfaraz Ahmed fell, nicking off to first slip for 1, but the over that took his spell from magnificent to history-making was yet to come. In his third over, he was a walking highlights reel, the aforementioned Roy dismissal kicking it off. It would get better from there, Azam Khan’s outside edge carrying to Ben Dunk in a near-identical manner to Sarfaraz’s. The final ball, Ben Cutting’s first, was arguably the only loose delivery of the spell, a long hop the Australian looked to dispatch to cow corner. But Patel had the Midas touch going, and Cutting failed to get elevation onto the shot, and pulled it straight down midwicket’s throat.This left Quetta at 21 for 6, and if Patel hadn’t run out of overs, you’d assume they wouldn’t have got close to the 98 they ended up posting.Hafeez and Dunk play their partNever underestimate Lahore’s ability to navigate a pathway to defeat, no matter how impregnable their position. And when Quetta set them 99 to chase, the perception was they had managed a comeback of sorts, and with momentum – and a trio of especially capable spinners in Fawad Ahmed, Mohammad Nawaz, and Zahid Mahmood – on their side, the chase could become particularly tricky. Aside from a second over in which Fakhar Zaman pillaged 20, that is exactly what it might have turned into. Zaman fell to Nawaz, his fourth dismissal to spin in this season, and two overs later, the captain Sohail Akhtar, who had never quite got going, was beaten in the air and stumped.This was exactly the sort of scrap Quetta wanted, but Hafeez and Dunk would not let that happen. After cautiously getting themselves in for a couple of overs, they turned the chase around with 15 runs off a poor Fawad over. Quetta fell away after that, never quite able to wrest back the control they believed their spinners would grant them, and with the pressure reducing after every boundary, the fight sapped out of the defending champions relatively quickly. It would take just 4.5 overs for the final 60 runs to be scored, and when Hafeez sealed it with a six over cover, it was just an exclamation mark on a convincing – and complete – Lahore performance.Where the teams standFor the first time in PSL history, Quetta have lost four on the bounce, and drop to fifth – outside the cut-off for qualification. The only side below them is the one they beat, Lahore, who now have two wins in six matches."
Web Desk,Electric Shadab Khan left to rue the rain as Peshawar Zalmi win,2020-03-07,"Peshawar Zalmi 85 for 2 (Akmal 37) beat Islamabad United 195 for 5 (Khan 77, Munro 52) by seven runs (D/L method)RAWALPINDI: Shadab Khan’s sizzling 77 off 42 balls vaulted him into second place on the PSL top scorers list for 2020, but the Islamabad United captain’s knock was in vain as rain arrived with Peshawar Zalmi seven runs ahead of the DLS par score at the nine-over mark of their chase, taking the fizz out of what was shaping up to be an exciting game in Rawalpindi.Khan partnered with the two Colin’s, Munro and Ingram, for a pair of half-century partnerships to set a target of 196 in what was an incredibly sloppy fielding performance by Zalmi. But in spite of five dropped chances, including two each off Khan and one apiece off Ingram and Munro, Zalmi’s bowlers managed to haul back the United innings with some brilliant death bowling.A typically pugnacious start to the chase by Kamran Akmal (37 off 21) kept Zalmi well ahead of the DLS par score, even after both he and Imam-ul-Haq fell. Khan protested with the umpires when drizzle increased to the point that the covers were brought on with United 85 for 2, feeling that they could have played on though it was clear he making a hard sell knowing his side were behind on DLS.The match had already been delayed 15 minutes at the start due to early afternoon rain and a wet outfield. After a further 55-minute delay, Zalmi were set a revised target which left them needing 21 off two more overs. But just as the players were about to take the field once again, the rain returned to cement Zalmi as winners on the day.The wicket of Ingram to end a 76-run stand with Khan. United had been cruising at more than 10 an over throughout their innings, but Ingram couldn’t clear long-on trying to smash a Hasan Ali full toss. Liam Livingstone took the catch, which triggered a bizarre stalling of the innings.Khan fell six balls later smashing a length ball from Wahab Riaz to Livingstone again; it was his third catch of the day. Rahat Ali then followed up by conceding just six runs in the final over, wrapping up a sequence in which United scored just 11 runs off the final 13 balls despite having seven wickets in hand. So, instead of sailing past 200, United finished with a comparatively gettable 195 for 5.Though it came in a losing effort, Khan’s half-century – his third of the season to put him level with Munro – continued to build a very strong case for his ending up as Player of the Tournament. He is now joint-second on the PSL scoring chart alongside Akmal with 237 runs at 47.40 and a strike rate of 170.50.Khan is just 11 runs behind United team-mate Luke Ronchi for the overall scoring lead and after striking four more sixes in this contest, he now has a tournament best 15 maximums.Though there were five drops in the United innings, the lone drop in the Zalmi chase was perhaps the clumsiest of all. Tom Banton was on 16 in the seventh over when he top-edged a sweep off Zafar Gohar’s left-arm spin to Akif Javed at short fine leg. Though it was not by any means a steepler, the ball slipped through Javed’s hands as he snatched at it.Zalmi joined Multan Sultans at the top of the PSL table on nine points, though Sultans hold a massive advantage on net run rate and also have two matches in hand. United are third on the points table with seven points and a superior net run rate to Karachi Kings, though the Kings have two matches in hand."
